 Song Exploder 
 Jack Harlow - Say Hello 
 Episode 311 
 Hrishikesh:  You’re listening to Song Exploder, where musicians take apart their songs and 
 piece by piece tell the story of how they were made. I’m Hrishikesh Hirway. 
 Jack Harlow is from Louisville, Kentucky, and started performing and releasing 
 music in 2015, when he was in high school. In 2020, he released his first album, 
 which went double platinum. He was nominated for a Grammy for Best Rap 
 Performance. He’s had multiple number one hits across his first three albums. 
 And for his fourth album,  Monica  , which just came out in March 2026, he 
 switched things up dramatically. And I was curious how and why. How did 
 someone who had so much success as a rapper approach a new way of making 
 music? So, for this episode, I spoke to Jack Harlow about the song “Say Hello,” 
 which is the closing track on  Monica  . 
 (“Say Hello” by JACK HARLOW) 
 (Vocals: “Ooh, woah / Ooh, woah, say hello, ooh, woah / Ooh, woah, say hello, ooh, woah”) 
 Jack:  My name’s Jack Harlow. 
 I was working on a different album for two years after  Jackman  , my last one, and 
 it was good, but I didn't think it was exciting or surprising. It just wasn't distinct 
 enough. And it also felt like something I'd done before, which, you know, 
 repeating yourself is boring. And I was getting more and more frustrated and I 
 was dreading going to the studio. 
 And you know, as soon as recording becomes work, you're in trouble, I think. Not 
 that there's no work ethic involved. Of course sometimes you have to grind it out. 
 But when you're trying to get inspired and it feels like labor, that’s something to 
 take as a sign. So, finally I just took three weeks off. 
 I remember talking about it with my engineer right before I took that three week 
 break and sort of having to reconcile it in front of him. Almost a little 
 embarrassed, saying, “Yeah, man, you know, I just gotta think.” And he said it out 
 loud for me. I was already thinking it, but he put it really well. He’s like, “I think 
 you just need to choose a North Star that is distinct and definitive.” 
 So, I took a lot of walks. You know, I think part of the reason I was dreading going 
 to the studio is, I had just moved to New York, and I would look out the 
 occasional window I might have in a studio. I'd go outside and I'd say, wow, I'd 
 rather be out here than be in there recording. 
 And so I decided to think about, what do I actually want to do? What am I 
 listening to? What does my ear crave? I've always been attracted to melody, and 
 I listen to a lot of melodic music. I find I prefer melodic music, and I think there's 
 something so timeless and emotional about melody. 
 A lot of my early stuff had a lot more melody involved. And then it's almost like I 
 found my rap tone, and I was getting such a great response from it, and it 
 became something I could lean on so consistently that I think I got further and 
 further away from melody. 
 But the genre of neo soul as a whole was super influential to me. Just how 
 pleasant it was. So I wanted something that, in 20 years, I'll still like the sound of. 
 (beat loop - Rhodes) 
 About three years ago, I first caught wind of Aksel Arvid, a loop maker from 
 Norway. And there's a lot of loop makers in hip hop that are over in Europe that 
 are almost faceless to the rest of the industry and just send loops through email 
 to big name producers. So, to me, he was another one of those and he was 
 talented, but I didn't know much more about him. 
 And he worked with my longtime friend and collaborator 2forwOyNE, who I grew 
 up with. But he introduced me to Aksel and brought him to Kentucky for the first 
 time. And he was just somebody I met in passing. And we had a couple songs 
 that we worked on together. And then sometime in 2024, my little brother, Clay 
 Harlow, who is a producer too, he's on this album. And he became closer with 
 Aksel as well. And he asked, could he bring Aksel to a session? 
 So, Aksel came around, and we started to get to know each other, and we 
 started to realize there were parallels in our interests and our natures. He and I 
 bonded over R&B. We were attracted to similar melodies and sounds. So he 
 became the clear go-to guy and executive producer for me. 
 I could tell you a few of the rules that we followed. You know, I think rules are so, 
 so wonderful to end up somewhere specific. And I'd say the number one, when 
 Aksel first got to New York, the first thing I said after those three weeks of 
 deliberating were, I don't wanna make anything with braggadocio, or overt 
 egoism. You know, I wanna make something that I think can age really well. And I 
 was, at the time, in the mindset of, ego is weighing down the quality of the music 
 as it gets older. So, I was interested in no braggadocio. 
 I was interested in only being melodic. So, singing, the whole time. 
 No cursing. Curse words can be a crutch sometimes. They can also be exciting 
 and add a punctuation to things, but that's not what I was looking for this time. I 
 like the challenge, as a writer, of not having any crutches. 
 And then all the instruments, we eventually decided, had to be live. Except for 
 the drums. The drums could be programmed, to keep it hip hop. 
 (beat loop - programmed drums) 
 But, you know, no synths coming outta the computer. The bass, the guitar, horns, 
 strings, everything had to be live. 
 So those were some of the things we lived by. And we knew we'd end up 
 somewhere. 
 Of the songs that made the album, “Say Hello" is the earliest. I showed up to the 
 studio and Aksel played this beat: 
 (full beat loop) 
 Made up at the time of Jermaine Paul's bass notes, Aksel on Rhodes, and he 
 had done the drums as well. 
 And he just played me the beat. I just sat there with shades on, for 20 minutes, 
 listening to it, just steeping myself in it. 
 You know, I was very moody in these sessions. I think the stakes felt high to me. 
 I'd just scrapped an album, and I cared a lot about how this was gonna end up. 
 And I don't think moodiness is the best response, but I'm a naturally moody 
 person. And sometimes I'd walk in there and just, I’d just need a second to warm 
 up, socially. And this was one of those days where I walked in a little moody and 
 sometimes I just wanna listen to the beat. I don't wanna talk about what I think of 
 it, or how it got made. I just want to hear it for a while. 
 And I think this was one of those days where I just wanted to let it play, but I 
 immediately was like, oh, this feels Slum Village. This feels Outkast. This just 
 feels like part of the music I love. It felt very in line with the reason I started this 
 project as a whole. 
 And so I knew as soon as I heard it, I was like, okay, there's something here. 
 (beat loop out) 
 And then we started playing with melodies. The first few weeks of this album 
 when we were still figuring out what it was, I was recording on almost everything 
 he played. Because I didn't wanna be too rigid about what I thought it should be, 
 or how I wanted it to sound. 
 So despite the moodiness I was describing, there was a general optimism and 
 openness to everything I was hearing, because I just wanted to see where we 
 might land, and we could filter it later. We can decide where we're going later. But 
 this was still when I was in a zone of, let's try it. 
 I mean, a lot of these songs were made just with taking the SM 7 out, holding it in 
 my hand and just doing what feels good, which was a relatively new process for 
 me. Something that I've been avoiding the last few years. I've been so, statement 
 first, lyrics first, that I think I've missed out, or just neglected the improvisational 
 nature of just playing with melody and making it nonsensical to start. And that's 
 how this song started, was kind of nonsensical and just finding a melody that felt 
 good. 
 (gibberish singing early demo) 
 I would lay down a melody for four bars that I really liked, and I would say, while 
 I'm still flowing, let me move on to a different melody. All different melodies of just 
 word vomit. 
 (gibberish singing early demo) 
 And sometimes while you're scatting the melody, a word will come to you. 
 Sometimes you find words that lock right into place. And that's when it feels really 
 good. You don't feel like you're compromising. You feel like it's you and the 
 universe cooking something up. 
 (Vocals: “Maybe I'll get at you when my life gets slow”) 
 The first line, “Maybe I'll get at you when my life gets slow.” As soon as I said 
 that, I was like, okay, I kind of know what this could be about. Because I've 
 expressed that sentiment before, or at least thought that sentiment in my head. 
 Like, we don't have to, this doesn't have to be a right now thing, but maybe when 
 things slow down, it'll align. And maybe it won't! It's not just my decision. It's not 
 just me saying, when things slow down for me, I'll be available for you. It's, 
 maybe you'll be available. Maybe I will. Maybe the stars will align. It’s that 
 sentiment. 
 (Vocals: “But one day I'll be walkin' by the place you stay, ooh, woah”) 
 It felt like a mosaic of memories. I feel like I've had a good amount of 
 stop-and-starts with people that… it wasn't negative, it didn't end in an ugly way, 
 but sometimes you begin something and the timing isn't right. But there's still a 
 positive feeling. You still like something about them. You know, it's, you're not 
 dumping them, they're not dumping you. It's just, huh, this doesn't seem to make 
 sense for us right now. 
 (Vocals: “Maybe I'll get at you when my life gets slow”) 
 Up to this point, my vocal has been this singular, laidback, sometimes 
 monotonous, rap vocal. And, you know, I didn't want to just make new music. I 
 wanted to be heard in a way I've never been heard. And I, it thrills me that a few 
 of these songs people have to ask, “Is that you?” Because I think it's exciting to 
 access new parts of your voice and stretch yourself. 
 (Vocals: “I'm missin' you and the shapе of ya / I'll visit you when the day comes / I'm givin' up 
 control, I'm givin' up control of you / (You know I want you back, you knеw I'd come runnin' back) 
 / (Sometimes I)”) 
 In my head, there's only so many sweet spots in my voice. And when I find the 
 sweet spot, whatever notes those are, whatever octave it is, that's what I can 
 accomplish on this song. And you know, this album was not about showing 
 people how good of a singer I am. It was about showing people my choice and 
 curation. 
 I'm not looking to show people, “Oh my God, he's actually an incredible singer.” 
 I'm looking to show people I can make music that sounds really good. And 
 whatever way I get there is the best way I get there. But I wanted to make 
 something that was less about my talent being on display and more my taste. 
 (Vocals: “Ooh, woah, say hello, say hello”) 
 I mean, I remember early in my career wanting to make a commercial splash, 
 and almost looking down on stuff that wasn’t taking enough of a risk to be 
 commercial. So now I find myself on the other end of the pendulum, saying, well, 
 I’m more interested in making this type of music right now. 
 There's things I'm still driven by. There's things I'm still insecure about. You know, 
 I still have a, a status anxiety from time to time, like anyone that's trying to climb. 
 I would love to catch a smash off of this album, but that’s not why I made it. 
 Hrishikesh:  More with Jack Harlow after this. 
 Jack:  So like I said, I come up with all these melodies without troubling myself at all 
 about the words. 
 And then we go into puzzle piece mode and say, cool, let's actually do some of 
 the work, the labor of piecing these together. And I know a lot of artists that hate 
 the lyrics part. You know, that's why so many artists work with writers, because 
 they want all of music, they want their whole career to be instinct. And I, I relate 
 to that, but I enjoy language enough that I enjoy the puzzle-piecing of lyrics. And 
 it does get frustrating sometimes. But I like both sides. 
 (Vocals: “I'll be understanding if you change your name”) 
 “I'll be understanding if you change your name.” If you get married, I get it. 
 (Vocals: “Maybe you prefer to live a life you know”) 
 With my career I end up meeting women that… they live a life that is totally unlike 
 mine, and maybe is a little slower and more stable. And it's me essentially 
 saying, “Maybe you would actually enjoy living the life that is familiar to you, and 
 is more conventional than mine. And maybe that is what's best for you.” 
 I definitely zeroed in on a poignant acceptance and melancholy over change, and 
 how things change, and you know, the nostalgia of looking back on this time you 
 shared with somebody, but accepting that it's a thing of the past. And who knows 
 what the future holds? The emotion got more specific, and it gave all the 
 musicians something to work with. 
 (bass) 
 Jermaine plays a, a six-string bass, and he would lay foundational stuff and then 
 later come back and play something interactive on top of it. 
 (piano) 
 And then, Robert Glasper is playing all that piano. Robert and I had worked on 
 some music before that never came out, so I brought him into the fold. But  I’m 
 such a minimalist by nature that sometimes I have to force myself to give things 
 these richer details. And a lot of it was so jazzy that I, I had to grow used to it. 
 (drums, Rhodes, bass, piano together) 
 So the maximalism vs minimalism was a huge thing with this song, and there was 
 a lot of conflict between me and Aksel over how much of this busy piano we were 
 gonna keep. 
 (piano) 
 Because I definitely wanted Robert to make it a more rich, dynamic song. You 
 know, we didn't want it to be this loop that had no moments of life. I think it's good 
 to have moments in a song that occur once, as opposed to it looping like a 
 machine. But it was definitely us having to find a balance because, you know, at 
 the end of the day it was Aksel's job to get a certain level of complexity and 
 musicality that was important to him across the line. 
 But my requirement I issued to him was: I enjoy minimalism, I enjoy simple, 
 palatable music, and at the same time, I wanna be pushed outta my comfort 
 zone. So it really came down to that test for him of, get as much complexity as 
 you can across the line here without it disturbing my enjoyment. 
 And that was his, that in a lot of ways, that sums up his role for this album, to be 
 honest. 
 (horns) 
 A fellow named Stéphane Clément came in during post-production and laced a 
 good set of these songs with beautiful trumpet. 
 (horns) 
 My voice is so limited and my range is so limited, and you know, I don't think of 
 myself as a very dynamic singer. I was looking for any opportunity to lift some of 
 my melodies and make them breezier. 
 (Ravyn vocals: “ah-ah-ah, ah-ah-ah, ah-ah-ah ah”) 
 Ravyn Lenae is one of the best singers of our generation, in my opinion. I 
 remember I saw her at a open mic in Atlanta in 2017, and was blown away at her 
 voice, even back then. And I booked her for the Gazebo festival I threw in 
 Louisville in 2024. So we actually met at the festival. 
 Sometimes you meet artists and you're like, cool, they're in their own world, like 
 there's, there's not gonna be a lot of synergy. But sometimes you meet 
 somebody and you're like, I don't know. There's an understanding here. And I 
 think we had that really early. There was a warmth between us. She came to 
 New York and we hung out and talked about life and music, and became friends, 
 in a real way. 
 And so by the time I was looking for some vocals, it felt like an organic way to 
 stamp our friendship, to be honest. And so she came to Electric Lady and laid 
 them right in front of me. 
 (Ravyn vocals: “ah-ah-ah, ah-ah-ah, ah-ah-ah ah”) 
 That's a melody she came up with on the spot. And then, impromptu, she was 
 like, “Why don't you sing these, this, with me?” And so, you’ll hear, she and I 
 started singing together. 
 (Ravyn and Jack vocals: “ah-ah-ah, ah-ah-ah, ah-ah-ah ah”) 
 Hrishikesh:  There are these bird calls and nature sounds in the music, and I was wondering, 
 where did that come from? 
 Jack:  This is one of those things that was there from the beginning. It was part of the 
 beat, and, you know, I love the park. And I wouldn’t even call myself a nature guy. 
 You know, I don’t like going camping, I don’t care to go on hikes, really. I’m not 
 Mr. Nature. But I do like going to the park and I like how it makes me feel. And I 
 think that captured that, and it captured how it feels to be outside in New York. It 
 just felt right. 
 You don't always know how things are gonna end. But I hate to end anything on 
 bad terms. I'd like for everything to end in a way that allows us to greet each 
 other when we see each other. You know, it doesn't mean we have to go on 
 another date. Doesn't mean we have to rekindle. But it would be nice if we can 
 say hello to each other. It should be like, “Hey, how you doing?” Maybe I can give 
 you a hug.  And I think there's optimism to it that I, as a person, believe in. 
 I don’t know if there’s a song that sums up the theme of the album more than this 
 song, to me, actually. There’s something obscure about it, there’s something 
 more vague and impressionistic about it, that I don’t know if I’ve accomplished in 
 some of my other work. 
 I love the way we just kind of captured this loose, blurry feeling in a bottle. 
 Hrishikesh:  And now, here’s “Say Hello,” by Jack Harlow, in its entirety. 
 (“Say Hello” by JACK HARLOW) 
 Go to songexploder.net to learn more. You’ll find links to buy or stream “Say 
 Hello.” 
 This episode was produced by me, Craig Eley, Mary Dolan, and Kathleen Smith, 
 with production assistance from Tiger Biskup. The episode artwork is by Carlos 
 Lerma, and I made the show’s theme music and logo. 
 Song Exploder is a proud member of Radiotopia, from PRX, a network of 
 independent, listener-supported, artist-owned podcasts. You can learn more 
 about our shows at radiotopia.fm. 
 If you’d like to hear more from me, subscribe to my newsletter. You can find it on 
 the Song Exploder website. You can also get a Song Exploder t-shirt at 
 songexploder.net/shirt. 
 I’m Hrishikesh Hirway. Thanks for listening. 
 © 2020 Translucence 