Singer, songwriter, producer Charlie Singer, songwriter, producer Charlie Puth has amassed over 35 billion Puth has amassed over 35 billion streams. He also got nine multiplatinum streams. He also got nine multiplatinum singles, four Grammy nominations, three singles, four Grammy nominations, three Billboard Awards, a Critics's Billboard Awards, a Critics's Choice Award, and a Golden Globe Choice Award, and a Golden Globe nomination. Charlie's fourth studio nomination. Charlie's fourth studio album, Whatever is Clever, comes out album, Whatever is Clever, comes out March 27th of this year. Presented by March 27th of this year. Presented by Mix with the Masters, this session will Mix with the Masters, this session will explore how Charlie uses modern explore how Charlie uses modern technology to turn ideas into hit songs. technology to turn ideas into hit songs. Please welcome Charlie Puth. Please welcome Charlie Puth. This is amazing. This is amazing. There's such an important role as There's such an important role as artists and producers and songwriters in artists and producers and songwriters in here. something like a rhythmic? I never like something like a rhythmic? I never like to start with the drums right away. I to start with the drums right away. I want to have an instrument that kind of want to have an instrument that kind of gives percussion in F major. And I I was gives percussion in F major. And I I was like, can you do and he puts his laptop here and he was and he puts his laptop here and he was like, here, try this. And and I'm like and I'm like trying to like trying to like I broke my own rule and I was like, "Oh, I broke my own rule and I was like, "Oh, maybe I'll put like a little a beat on maybe I'll put like a little a beat on it. And I was like still coming up with And I was like still coming up with opened up Keyscape and put on Hold on, opened up Keyscape and put on Hold on, let me put this on solo latch really let me put this on solo latch really quickly. So we have the guitar part. Do quickly. So we have the guitar part. Do you know the plugin by Tal Tal the you know the plugin by Tal Tal the chorus? The Juno chorus. I took I wanted chorus? The Juno chorus. I took I wanted a Phil Collins vibe. I had this and then it all opened up when I did. and then it all opened up when I did. Listen how beautiful this is when it Listen how beautiful this is when it comes in. It's just bass and piano. comes in. It's just bass and piano. Little loops on top of it. Okay, now I need a garbage pan snare. Kind of shitty on its own. And then Kind of shitty on its own. And then Larry, I'm a firm believer that not everything I'm a firm believer that not everything has to sound good on its own. If it has to sound good on its own. If it sounds good in the mix, that's kind of sounds good in the mix, that's kind of good enough. good enough. That sounds like I just made my first That sounds like I just made my first beat ever, right? beat ever, right? But listen to what happens when you put But listen to what happens when you put everything together. everything together. Little double kick kind of Little double kick kind of add the big. add the big. Let's loop that part. Let's loop that part. Tom's overhead Tom's overhead and then the main loop which is like the and then the main loop which is like the the juice to everything. See that's the woo that I was expecting See that's the woo that I was expecting for when I put that in. That's it right for when I put that in. That's it right there. Like you It's like I want a stem to be a Like you It's like I want a stem to be a chorus. I think that's what we should chorus. I think that's what we should all strive when we're producing a record all strive when we're producing a record to have something the the common to have something the the common listener might not even catch, but like listener might not even catch, but like they might catch it. but Listen to [singing] different day and night different day and night my my me look good. Here it is. me look good. Here it is. round of it. round of it. Beautiful. I can feel the distance. Everything's different. Backstory. I had a friend when I went to Backstory. I had a friend when I went to Berkeley. He unfortunately passed away Berkeley. He unfortunately passed away two years prior to me writing this song, two years prior to me writing this song, but he always told me when he was alive but he always told me when he was alive that I would write a song like this. And that I would write a song like this. And I never knew what he meant. He was like, I never knew what he meant. He was like, "One day the industry is going to "One day the industry is going to it's going to evolve and you're going to it's going to evolve and you're going to be in it." I'm like, "Sure, whatever you be in it." I'm like, "Sure, whatever you say." His name was Veil. He always told say." His name was Veil. He always told me that I would write this song, but he me that I would write this song, but he never sung it. There was no melody or never sung it. There was no melody or anything like that. He always just said anything like that. He always just said I was going to write it. Two years I was going to write it. Two years later, I walk into this room with my later, I walk into this room with my friend Justin. And uh his he goes by DJ friend Justin. And uh his he goes by DJ Frankie. It's he's who I made the song Frankie. It's he's who I made the song with. I heard these chords. It was like with. I heard these chords. It was like a very again it was 2014. It was a very a very again it was 2014. It was a very like synthet I'm I'm not going to bother like synthet I'm I'm not going to bother finding a synth here. It was very down finding a synth here. It was very down and had the sweeps and all, you know, and had the sweeps and all, you know, white noise filters, white noise filters, all that stuff. And I was like, you know all that stuff. And I was like, you know what? We're we're we're adding and what? We're we're we're adding and building to this track and it's nothing. building to this track and it's nothing. This is just an example of one of my This is just an example of one of my processes. It's why don't we just delete processes. It's why don't we just delete everything? and we just added sounds for everything? and we just added sounds for two hours and we still have no song two hours and we still have no song instead of it being what if it's and the moment I did that I kid you not and the moment I did that I kid you not I got chills right now the moment I did I got chills right now the moment I did that it it's been a long day that it it's been a long day without you [singing] and I'll tell you without you [singing] and I'll tell you all about it when I see you again I was all about it when I see you again I was singing to my friend And I realized this singing to my friend And I realized this was the song that he was talking about. was the song that he was talking about. This was the song that he told This was the song that he told me that I would write one day. is me that I would write one day. is such an amazing thing, everybody. We're such an amazing thing, everybody. We're so fortunate to be here. I hate to be a so fortunate to be here. I hate to be a broken record, but we have such an broken record, but we have such an important we have such an important role as we we have such an important role as we have such an important role as artists have such an important role as artists and producers and songwriters in and producers and songwriters in here in the day and age where everything here in the day and age where everything is, you know, people are having birthday is, you know, people are having birthday parties and they're just typing in, you parties and they're just typing in, you know, birthday party and it's all know, birthday party and it's all artificially made. This is the most artificially made. This is the most important time to be human right now. In a broad way of saying my process In a broad way of saying my process varies. One day I'll, you know, make the varies. One day I'll, you know, make the whole track and write the whole song. whole track and write the whole song. just patience is key. And I think that's just patience is key. And I think that's a good way to end it all. I want to thank you all for coming out I want to thank you all for coming out today and taking the time to today and taking the time to listen to this and stay creative. Thank listen to this and stay creative. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. you very much everybody. Thank you. Superman got none Superman got none of 
