I mean, you're just talking about I mean, you're just talking about songwriting, and I would love if you songwriting, and I would love if you could break down your songwriting could break down your songwriting process. I feel like writing a good song process. I feel like writing a good song is like a feeling that you're trying to is like a feeling that you're trying to catch, and I feel like you know how to catch, and I feel like you know how to catch it. So, could you explain how you catch it. So, could you explain how you catch it? I try never to get discouraged. To I try never to get discouraged. To answer to answer your question simply, I answer to answer your question simply, I try never to get discouraged because try never to get discouraged because it's okay if a day goes by and nothing it's okay if a day goes by and nothing happens. It's okay if a week goes by and happens. It's okay if a week goes by and nothing happens. It's okay. I was just nothing happens. It's okay. I was just talking to an artist the other day. talking to an artist the other day. They've been sitting in the studio for They've been sitting in the studio for 30 days, and I'm like, "Are you nervous 30 days, and I'm like, "Are you nervous that your label's going to get mad at that your label's going to get mad at you that you haven't made anything?" He you that you haven't made anything?" He was like, "No, it's it's going to come. was like, "No, it's it's going to come. It It comes when it comes. We We have to It It comes when it comes. We We have to search constantly for inspiration. We search constantly for inspiration. We have to show up for it. It doesn't By By have to show up for it. It doesn't By By you all showing up now, this is a big you all showing up now, this is a big gallery of inspiration. So, I walked gallery of inspiration. So, I walked into um Do you see this getting progressively um Do you see this getting progressively lower? Just follow it. Just follow it. I heard these chords. I heard these chords. Okay, backstory. I had a friend when I Okay, backstory. I had a friend when I went to Berkeley. He unfortunately went to Berkeley. He unfortunately passed away 2 years prior to me writing passed away 2 years prior to me writing this song, but he always told me this song, but he always told me when he was alive that when he was alive that I would write a song like this, and I I would write a song like this, and I never knew what he meant. He was like, never knew what he meant. He was like, "One day the music industry's going to "One day the music industry's going to It's going to evolve, and you're going It's going to evolve, and you're going to be in it." I'm like, to be in it." I'm like, "Sure, whatever you say." His name was "Sure, whatever you say." His name was Vale. He always told me that I would Vale. He always told me that I would write this song, but he never sang it. write this song, but he never sang it. There was no melody or anything like There was no melody or anything like that. He always just said I was going to that. He always just said I was going to write it. And 2 years later, I walk into write it. And 2 years later, I walk into this room with my friend Justin, and this room with my friend Justin, and uh he He goes by DJ Frankie. It's he's uh he He goes by DJ Frankie. It's he's what I made this song with, and he Thank what I made this song with, and he Thank you. Strong. I heard these chords. It was like a very I heard these chords. It was like a very Again, it was 2014. It was a very like Again, it was 2014. It was a very like synth out I'm I'm not going to bother synth out I'm I'm not going to bother finding a synth here. It was very da finding a synth here. It was very da had the sweeps and all you know white had the sweeps and all you know white noise filters noise filters all that stuff and all that stuff and I was like you know what we're we're I was like you know what we're we're we're adding and building to this track we're adding and building to this track and it's nothing this is just an example and it's nothing this is just an example of my processes it's why don't we just of my processes it's why don't we just delete everything we just added sounds delete everything we just added sounds for 2 hours and we still have no song for 2 hours and we still have no song instead of it being instead of it being I got chills right now the moment I did I got chills right now the moment I did that it's it's it's been a realized this was the song that he was realized this was the song that he was talking about this was the song that he talking about this was the song that he told me that I would write one day and I told me that I would write one day and I didn't I've just met these co-so I didn't I've just met these co-so I called they co-producers and songwriters called they co-producers and songwriters I'm not going to open up to them like I'm not going to open up to them like that so I'm like in the corner like that so I'm like in the corner like I'm I and then I find out that DJ I'm I and then I find out that DJ Frankie J Sica Justin is going through Frankie J Sica Justin is going through the same thing he lost his friend and the same thing he lost his friend and we're just it's like a tennis match we're just it's like a tennis match we're just trading lyrics it's been a we're just trading lyrics it's been a long day without you my friend and I'll long day without you my friend and I'll tell you all about it when I see you tell you all about it when I see you again we've been we've come a long way again we've been we've come a long way from where I began it's just like it's from where I began it's just like it's like a I feel like I've known this like a I feel like I've known this person for all my life all of a sudden person for all my life all of a sudden and then we have we have a completed and then we have we have a completed chorus and then we spend the entire chorus and then we spend the entire night we order Pizza Hut probably a bad night we order Pizza Hut probably a bad decision we had tummy aches after that decision we had tummy aches after that but then then we then we just continue to then then we then we just continue to add to it and then add to it and then 8 months later 8 months later after trying a bunch of different after trying a bunch of different singers on it because again I intended singers on it because again I intended to come out to LA to to write for other to come out to LA to to write for other artists I'm just completely fine being a artists I'm just completely fine being a demo singer. I ended up I was blessed demo singer. I ended up I was blessed enough to be able to stay on the record enough to be able to stay on the record with Wiz Khalifa and with Wiz Khalifa and I I know that those instances don't I I know that those instances don't happen every day. Sometimes we have happen every day. Sometimes we have creative blanks and whatever. I'm I'm creative blanks and whatever. I'm I'm currently in one right now. I just currently in one right now. I just finished an album and I'm in the car finished an album and I'm in the car right over here and I'm like, I don't right over here and I'm like, I don't know I don't hear any music in my head. know I don't hear any music in my head. And I used to get kind of bummed out And I used to get kind of bummed out about it, but now I just let the process about it, but now I just let the process happen. I might go back to the hotel and happen. I might go back to the hotel and turn the shower might make a C sharp. I I I I I know I get on the internet and I kind I know I get on the internet and I kind of I'm a little theatrical and you know, of I'm a little theatrical and you know, things are between us a little things are between us a little exaggerated at times but because I want exaggerated at times but because I want to make it entertaining. I constantly to make it entertaining. I constantly want people to know that they have it in want people to know that they have it in them to make music. There's no them to make music. There's no you can have a really good question. So you know, I'll really good question. So you know, I'll I'll I'll have a second to part to it. I I'll I'll have a second to part to it. I So after the success of that song, we So after the success of that song, we went to uh went to uh a studio house. They a studio house. They got this camera, this chef. It was all got this camera, this chef. It was all fancy all of a sudden and we couldn't fancy all of a sudden and we couldn't come up with anything because we were so come up with anything because we were so nervous. They're just spending all this nervous. They're just spending all this money. The record label spent all this money. The record label spent all this money. We were we were nervous that we money. We were we were nervous that we weren't going to be able to come up with weren't going to be able to come up with anything. So I kind of just anything. So I kind of just let myself be okay that we might not let myself be okay that we might not come up with anything. And then all of come up with anything. And then all of my uh co-producers and songwriters at the uh co-producers and songwriters at the time are sitting around the fireplace time are sitting around the fireplace and they come up with this chord progression they come up with this chord progression and they start singing and they start singing So that was a time where I kind of had So that was a time where I kind of had to like no pride. I didn't write that like no pride. I didn't write that chorus, but I will sing that song for chorus, but I will sing that song for the rest of my life. I lean on the the rest of my life. I lean on the people who caught the inspiration at the people who caught the inspiration at the time and I have no ego about it. I will time and I have no ego about it. I will sing that song for the rest of my life. sing that song for the rest of my life. I unified with that song. I relate to I unified with that song. I relate to that song heavily. When Christina that song heavily. When Christina Grimmie passed away I Grimmie passed away I I sang that song. I like felt like I I sang that song. I like felt like I wrote it. wrote it. Music is such an amazing thing Music is such an amazing thing everybody. We're so fortunate to be everybody. We're so fortunate to be here. I hate to be a broken record here. I hate to be a broken record but we have such an important such an important role as artists and such an important role as artists and producers and songwriters in here in the producers and songwriters in here in the day and age where everything is day and age where everything is you know people are having birthday you know people are having birthday parties and they're just typing in parties and they're just typing in you know birthday party music and it's you know birthday party music and it's all artificially made. This is the most all artificially made. This is the most important time to be human right now. important time to be human right now. more than what you asked for but that my more than what you asked for but that my the answer is that my in a broad way of the answer is that my in a broad way of saying my my process varies. One day saying my my process varies. One day I'll you know make the whole track and I'll you know make the whole track and write the whole song. One day it'll take write the whole song. One day it'll take a month. It just patience is key. a month. It just patience is key. I think that's a good answer. I think that's a good answer. and spending this time with and spending this time with 
