The general approach of how I think about writing is just to say something that people already say. We'll start with the chorus first. Oh, that could be cool, too. If I sing up and the melody goes up, there's some in it catchiness attached to that. The same kind of rhythm, but like one tiny little change. It's very syncop and I want something to balance it out. This is what happened with We Don't Talk Anymore and that vocal ended up being in the actual song. So the general approach of how I think about writing in general um is just to say something that people already say. Um as songwriters, as artists, as producers, uh our goal is to help people who don't do that for a profession to fill in the blank for them. uh to make something that they want to say to somebody uh a bit easier by showing them a song, by maybe showing them the song that we're writing right now, the song that you're writing, the one that I'm writing. We want to uh as artists because it's what we are artists, we want to make people's lives easier um by having by using like a song assistant method. And uh that's why I always kind of think about uh that's why I always pay attention to what people say in conversation. Uh because people might inadvertently say something really dope and it might turn into a cool lyric. And I think I was kind of riffing on something in the last lesson. I had like a little sentence pop up um in my head. We'll see if that still works. I need a little refresh. I might need to play this track a couple times. But um we'll start with the chorus first and then build around that. That's what I usually do. come up with the chore first and then all the stuff surrounding it. I always start out by listening at a very low volume. I don't want to kill my ears. Oh yeah, I remember. Right. So, I have something in mind. This is the verse section right here, but I'm not going to focus on that right now. This is the chorus coming up right here. I'm going to focus on that. I'm for sure changing that snare, but it's good to hear it just for the rhythm right now. Okay, so what I would usually do, and I'd recommend you to do the same, um, I have this little record track right here. I'll make it bigger to put some emphasis on it. Um, I make it red and yellow and uh red for record. And the only thing I have on here right now, um, my vocal chain is an 1176 going through a uh, well, it used to be a TD2. Now it's a it's a Neve kind of situation. Um, I'm not even going to pretend I know all the ins and outs of that compressor. It just makes my voice sound good. This is a Telephunin. I usually use um a little cheaper handheld mic, but might as well use a really nice one if it's right here in front of me. I I'm very insecure about my voice to be completely honest. And um I try and put as much stuff on it right away. Like I know for like Alicia Keys for example is an amazing singer, a way better singer than me and sings with absolutely nothing. No reverb, no autotune or anything. Um I do the opposite because I'm not as good of a singer. So, I need to hear my voice kind of perfect because I guess it's my perfect pitch, too. Um, if I hear one wrong note, I'll just get discouraged and think the melody's bad. So, on the first channel strip here, I'll put the autotune to classic mode and turn the retune speed uh all the way up to zero. Um, so it sounds like a super robot and put it into classic mode, of course. Um, D flat major. Like I said, this song is in D flat major. Um, I'll probably let's put a little reverb on here. So, I put it I make it super super tuned because I know it's not going to end up sounding like that, but in my mind it's honestly I just saw Esther Dean track her vocals like that back in 2015 when I worked with her and I just have done it ever since. And it just sounds like it sounds like a final vocal even though it's super robotic and you know that there's room for improvement. So that's why I do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um I also have a CLA 76 on here just because it's low latency. Um I do it just like that. I can turn the input up and squash the vocal a little bit. It's the what's going to inspire a lot of melodies out of me is uh knowing that it sounds like like what's the best way to say this? Like super squashed, but like not too squashed. Uh and like I want to hear a lot of processing on my voice. Let's throw an eighth note delay on here, too. Check. Check. Check. Check. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I have this melody. When I was making the track, this melody kind of just reared its head um uh while I was making it. And it's just a it's just a fifth above the D flat. So, starting on an A flat. And in my mind, this chorus when with when the vocal is completely finished would have a slightly stacked Tears for Fears kind of sounding vocal versus a be like uh and I would stack that kind of like midsy headone airy voice uh like maybe four times. I can show you how I how I do that. But, uh, I'll make the demo, uh, I'll sometimes tune the demo and make it sound perfect because then I can I just like enjoy it more when I bop around and listen to it in the car. It sounds like a almost finished product even though it's not. Um, so let's listen to this chorus one more time. Got to turn it up. Just going to turn that synth down a little bit, too. So, the lyric I had in mind was why you got to get why you got to go and get my hopes up. And we'll figure out what why my brain wanted me to do that, but it just it also sounds good off the tongue. Why you got to go and get my hopes up? I don't know what it means yet. Why you got to go and get my Hold on. Oh, oh, that could be cool, too. Okay, something I love. Okay, pause real quick. Something I love doing is whatever the lyric is, and it doesn't have to work out like this all the time, but whatever the lyric is, um, if something's mirroring that in the melody, so if the lyric is I don't know, I think the lyric in this song is going to be why you got to go and get my hopes up. if because it's a it it checks a couple boxes for me. It's something that people say, "Oh, you got my hopes up." Uh, and I think it would be really cool if the melody went up when I go up, too. So, if I sing up and the melody goes up, there's some inate catchiness attached to that. Let's see if it sounds good. I could be completely off, but I don't think I am. We just got to get every note perfectly. get closer to it. And that would be stacked, too. But why you got to go and get my hopes up? That's kind of dope. Um, okay. So, I'll record I'll I'll turn the autotune a little bit down on the track that I drag it to. It's just for recording purposes. I don't want that up to be not as whiny. I want it to be my kind of sang it the same way, but it's cleaner. Uh, do you Okay, so this is the most important part. I'll take the I'll unarm the track for a second. Um, on the theme of going slow and methodical with everything, I will up a little bit. Why you got to go and get my hopes up? I want that to be on the grid. And I know it's a demo vocal, but sounds pretty on the grid. Actually, I might just take this and just drag it. And maybe this one, too. Why? You got to Why you got to gota gota Why you got to go? And the Y just over to the left a little bit. Give my Let me put it on the grid. See where that 16th note is? Yeah, I can drag this over to the left a little bit. It's just It's so satisfying just having the silly demo vocal just being so in pocket. Even trim this down. This is what happened with with We Don't Talk Anymore. And that vocal ended up being in the actual song. So, you never know. I don't think this one is, but maybe it will be. I don't know. I want to get get my Just take some space out. Just there's something rhythmic about it. I don't know. Got to go and get my hopes. Got to go and get my go and get my hopes up. Got to go and get my get my kind of take this one out. This is what I do for every song. It's barely noticeable. Just a little cut right here, too. So, it just like impacts it lands. Just that up. Bring it over a little bit. So it's I want to hear it with some more tune. Something like simple like Okay, so that's the tag right there. I got to go and get my d and I'll copy and paste that one since I spent so much time making it good. Oops. Hold on. Over one. Boom. I hate that snare. I got to mute that snare. No production right now, but I'm just so much better. Okay, sorry. Okay, so let's do the B melody right now. This might be a little rough, but let's see. And make me think from the and make and why you got to go and get my hopes up and make me think you wanted me from the beginning. Make me think you did. I mean, I know you wouldn't say make me think you did want me from the beginning, but like it it's kind of a weird way to say it. I don't know. could change, but we're going to get the melody and why you got to go and get my Why you got to go and get my Ooh, okay. Dragged it. and make me think you did and then and make me think you did me from what you did. Ooh, maybe I go up on that. I'm going to bring the compressor of this LA2A. I love this by UuAD. Just make it a little more squashed. I should probably here I'll I'll show you what my chain is right now. So, obviously I have my record track right here and then I record everything here and then drag it down to this chorus track. I just have it in my template because I always start with the chorus. Um, this just take a little lows out. Uh, whatever the hell this thing is. This is like a What even is this? See, I don't even like know like my engineer at Ben helped me set this up. I don't know. It's like a compressor or something like that. This is a DSER. This is a great compressor. Kind of just like I recorded a very low. I I gain staged it a little bit, but like this kind of just rounds everything out and makes it nice and pleasant. And uh Zed told me to do this. Put a little bit of uh widening delay on the vocal. This is the difference here. If I take it off, if you don't want to take the time to stack a bunch of vocals, you just put the turn this up here. It sounds like this. And this is just about kind of blending it and making it sound not You don't want it to be like like that. That's annoying. So, you just bring it up like I'm going to take a little bit. I'm going to drag these here. And I want less delay. Again, it's not a race. It's better to just kind of move slow and thoughtful. I don't even want the fourth delay, but I'm going to keep it there anyway because it does something. Why you got to go and get my hopes up and make me think I'm going to sing that a little bit softer. And then go and get my and make me think you did. And make me think from the beginning. Yeah, I think I'm going to go B flat because it's about like I don't know. It just feels nice going to the B flat twice there. Let's see. Get my Yeah, it's catchier. Let me just get that a little bit better. Take this down here. Drag it down. there. Blend. Clean. Okay. So, maybe the same kind of rhythm, but like one tiny little change. Why you got to go and get my hopes up and make me think you did want me from the beginning? Uh um Okay, that's better. There's a little like Okay, so I'm not going to figure out that lyric right now, but I know I want that pocket and that rhythm because I haven't had that straight. It's very syncopated D and I want something to balance it out. Uh, so it's like m 75% syncopated this B part and then you put them uh you give it a little bit of uh the straight notes like a da da da da eighth notes and then you're back at the hook again like the uh the tagline rather. I'm just going to say like something random right now. It's just like sounds like words but not really. I went down and leave me. I don't know what I'm saying. Uh, come on. Why you got to go? Oh, that's cool. The people would say that. Come on. Why you got to go and get get my hopes up? Leave me on. Come on. All you got to do. Come on. You got to leave me. Come on. Why you got to go and get my Okay. So, you do this. I feel like this would be on a like. Okay. So, I have these background this background bus here. I Let's see what that that come on sounds like as a response rather than actually on the lead vocal. I think it'd be kind of a nice ear break. So, let's kind of take this up a little bit. Definitely need some tune on there. Just put it on every first section of the channel. Just have a bit of fun with it. Take a Valhalla. And, you know, Max does this a lot. uh size down. Let's see. Uh and we're just going to stack that right now and have it like uh not on the lead, but in the background as like kind of a response. Come on. It's like you're having like a conversation uh with one voice. I'll back the tune off that a little bit. So, this is what I usually do on a set of four background vocals. I have the come on, the very frontal nasely kind of thing. Um, and then, uh, Babyface always told me to do this to layer it with a like a barely audible whisper and then a slightly, uh, more noty whisper. So, we'll do the slightly more noty whisper. That'll This is what this is right here. So, instead of come on, you do come on. I guess it's falsetto would be an easy way to say it. Just lay it in, but like morphing your voice to make it just sound like to support the other vocal. me. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. That sounds kind of nice. Okay. And one more. Might not even need the little whisper. But we'll do it anyway since I said it. Come on. Just that. Come on. Because it sounds like a crowd. You're doing that. Um maybe on those whispers. Just take a simple EQ for one band. Just do a highp pass. Super airy. Sorry, I know that metronome is annoying. Group them together and kind of turn it down and blend them in. This is without it. This is with it. Adds something which is pretty cool. for fun. Let's stack that. Why you got to go and get my hopes up? I'm going to And by the way, I'm going to res all of this, but it's just so fun again to have a demo vocal that sounds like almost done even though it's not. Okay, let's see him cuz then I kind of have like an outline of how I'm really going to record it. Like I'll know that I'm going to stack why you got to go and get my hopes up and maybe leave this next part as a solo vocal. Why you got to go and get my hopes up and make me Why you got to go and get my hopes up and make me think you did my Okay, one more. Maybe one more whisper too. By the way, I do this to hear myself a little bit better. Um, sometimes I'll even go off pitch if I am too much in headphone world. So, I can still feel like the the resonance in my voice by just letting one ear loose. And if I were recording a real vocal, I would then uh vocal line everything and make everything super tight, but we don't need to do that right now. I may be going back on my idea that everything has to be super tuned. It kind of sounds better. I like that better. I think that's better. Get my hopes up and make me think you did want me from the beginning. Understand? Leave me on. Come on. Why you got to go? That's kind of hard. Hold on. Let's put this on a Let's Let's do this, man. Got to go. Let's drag these down here. Just I love separation and I love being able to like change something independently. So, we're just gonna do this this. Okay. Because I don't want as much reverb on these right here. So, I'll just use the proper reverb. understand. Now I can take these here and drag them back to where they once were. Okay, so now we're at the second half of the chorus. Um, I want a different rhyme scheme because every time I do a chorus, I think it should sound like a a roller coaster. Like when I used to go to Six Flags, like I would want to just ride the roller coaster over and over again because there was just something to look forward to. You want the listener to have something to uh look forward to. So if you have the same rhyming scheme, it's just going to kind of be monotonous and maybe they won't play the song again. You want them to play as much as possible, especially in today's streaming environment. and make me think you did want me from the beginning. Understand? Leave me on. Come on. You got to go and get my hopes up. Uh, so my last rhyme was make me think you did. There you go. But I'm also kind of thinking of like what could you say? You don't want to just make it complete babble, but hint at some words. Make me think you did want me from the beginning. Understand? Leave me on. Come on. Why you got to go and get my Why don't you go like I got to fit a little Y. Nice. Drag that little Y in there. Come on. Why you got to go and get my hopes up? I want to rear and disappear. Oh yeah, you could say something like why you got to go and get my hopes up and make it seem like you're always going to be here and then one day you just go up and disappear or something like that. I don't know if that's like Cash would be able to like help me kind of like bring it home, but like the idea is there because that's what someone would do like in a relationship like I'm sure you or some I've definitely gone through like you know I've been really excited um about like being with somebody and maybe she has eyes on somebody else and completely you know doesn't know how to tell me so trying to just like you know what's the term ghost get ghosted that's happened to me before um and I get my hopes up I was looking forward I was planning out dinners I was uh you know thinking about what I was going to wear what I was going to smell like or something. I don't know. It's real. Like everything that you put into your art should be 100% real. Um it should be the truth because uh even if somebody listens to this and they're like, "Oh, I don't like this. This sounds like a typical Charlie song." It's like they can have that opinion, but they can't deny that it's not the truth. Uh and I've written songs that maybe weren't the truth. And those didn't resonate at all with people because people are smart. They can tell uh what is truthful and what is not. And this is the truth. I've felt this emotion before. Maybe you have as well. Maybe you want to look forward to feeling this emotion in some sick way. I don't know. Uh but it's art. It's fun. Why you got to go and get my Okay, I'll just like say some babble and then figure it out later. I want to hold on. Disappear. I want to end on disappear. Okay. understand and that's when you do the little melody change. together and then one day I disappear and one day you just disappear. I would say one day you just disappear but it doesn't like fall off the tongue. Really super nice. And one day you just disappear. Like you want it to be as easy to sing along to as possible. That's why I'm okay with babble for now. day. Let's do that then. And then one day you disappear. Not perfect, but good for now. And then you go and then you go and disappear. And then you go and disappear. Oh, that's nice. And then you go and disappear. But okay, so one, but I don't want to say go because I say why I got to go and get my hopes up. There's too many goes. So So you're just kind of jumbling in your mind like what else could be said there? I just say wanna for now. Okay, sick. Let me see if that makes if that's cohesive the beginning of it. You understand? Leave me on. Come on. I got to sing it the same way that See how this sounds different than I got to sing it like this. So understand. Okay. Then you want to But then you want to disappear. And then you But then you disappear. It's kind of dope actually. But then you want to disappear could actually be a real lyric. Then you want to disappear. And how did I do the and that's going to rhyme. That's going to mirror that exactly that rhyme scheme. understanding. So, we have to figure out like another word that has songis. Not this. This is kind of cheesy, but like it sounds good. Keep me up till the dawn. Come on. And then you do come on. And then now we're starting to have a well-rounded chorus. Let me just copy paste these couple elements here. Got to sing that better. actually hate that part, but it sounds good for now. Okay, so I paste the commands now. Good chorus should literally just mirror itself. Now I know. And what's really cool You got to go and get my hopes. Okay. Okay. So, this is the scratch course we have so far. Leave me on. Come on. Why you got to go and get my hopes up and lonely like an ear? Then you want to disappear. Keep me up till the dawn. Come on. Why you got to go and get my Okay. Maybe a post or we could be really boss going into Okay, so let's figure out before we figure out the form, let's figure out what the verse melody is going to be. Hey, hey, hey.
