All right, so I got this TC TCL 25 pint 200 square 2,000 square feet dehumidifier. This one you can hook up a app to and let you know what the humidity level is. This one's from Home Depot. They had a sale. So, I think 2,000 square feet should be enough for this basement. 3-year limited warranty. So, it didn't come with a hose, but I got some hose from Home Depot. I think might work for right now. I don't know why it didn't come with the hose. It's some temporary hose I got for right now. Then I'm going to get another one. I'm going to get another one. See if that'll go. We'll see how this work. I don't know if I got enough feet to go to this drain. But we going to use this for right now. I'm going to get a super long one. And then, you know, run it cuz You know what? I do got a drain for this. Just thought about it. All right, so let me get this set up right quick. And I'm going to just put it in the middle of this basement right here. Probably in the middle. Cuz I got one over there, but that one like off of Amazon and it don't do too good, so It's just like a knockoff something, but it never It did good in the beginning, but it's been through it for a couple of years. So, I'm going to just put it right here for right now. I'm going to get a different cord. Get it set up. But we going to turn this thing to Let's see. low high We'll just do medium. Oh, that's the settings right there. At my house, I usually do Oh, you got to go down. Up and down. I usually do um 55 50. It depends on the smell. So, we going to run it 40. So, I'm guessing it's 70% right here. So, trying to get this to open up. And then I'm going to put it in here. When I get it all the way together, what I'm going to do is I don't know where I'm going to run this at for right now. But I feel like somewhere in this area, probably to the side. And then I'll run the cord against there and drill a hole so in that cap so it can just go in there. All right, so I put it in this chair. You can see it's 77% of moisture. So I'm going to see how this work. And I put it in this chair right now just for the gravity to see how it work. And um later on when I go get my I'm going to get some more of this line cuz I want to see if it's actually going to go out the line. Yeah, I'm going to see if it actually can go down it and then I'll drill a hole through this cap right here cuz I just capped that off the other day. Cuz there was another pipe going to that. And the pipe this pipe was messed up, clogged. So I ran another pipe and then I split it into here. And then it cuz they had another pipe going all the way across and a long PVC going down in here so I just did that. Made a splitter right here. >> I see your motivation. I see your movement is in effect. Let's get it.
