Hey Toronto, I just released more tickets for my special taping on December 14th at the Danforth Music Hall. So click the link in the description to get your tickets right now. And I've also got more Canadian dates coming up in the next few months. So get those tickets as well. See you guys soon and enjoy the video. Folks, I'll say it. Being a man is hard these days. It has never been more difficult to navigate the male experience than right now. Whenever I'm sitting down on the bus or the subway, women are always getting in the way of my legs. It's like, "Hello, I'm trying to spread out here, you asshole." It's relentless, you know, day after day with these relentless attacks from women. Oh, I left the toilet seat up. Yeah, that's cuz there's my pee on there and I didn't feel like cleaning it up. I am joking, obviously, but I do genuinely think it is the weirdest time to be a man on the internet right now. Not the most difficult by any means. It's kind of been smooth sailing forever for us dudes, but it is a weird time to say the least. There's a lot of weird men online grifting off of young, lonely, vulnerable men by promoting this a weird like skewed, dated, and harmful version of masculinity. And I've noticed now like a lot of young men feel emboldened to engage in misogynistic behavior because of who they regularly watch online. Or who knows, maybe it's because of the man who is currently the president of the United States. >> Grab him by the [ __ ] >> Who knows? >> And there's a certain trend going on right now involving a specific type of man that I really want to talk about today. Not only because I think it's very interesting, but also because I've kind of somehow become one of the [ __ ] poster boys for this genre of man. And I'm of course talking about performative males. Now, I know you're all probably thinking, "What is a performative male? Is that those birthday cards that sing when you open them up?" Yes, technically that that is performative male, but I am talking about performative men. If you look up performative males on Tik Tok, you will be bombarded with videos of dudes holding tote bags, drinking matcha lattes, listening to Clara, and clipping laboo to their belt loops. Now, unfortunately for me, I actually do all those things sometimes, except for clipping a laboo on my belt loop. I do that all the time. I am kidding, by the way. I do want to go on record and say that I think laboos are dumb and weird. If you want an ugly little freak attached to your hip all day, just have a baby. Other than that though, I don't see an issue with all the other stuff. Tote bags fit all my crap. Matcha lattes taste really good. And Claro makes good music. But the reason this type of man is labeled performative is people assume they aren't actually being genuine. People think it's all an act, a performance, if you will. The common opinion about this genre of guy is that they're only dressing this way and behaving like this so they can attract progressive women so they can then slide their willies in their hoo-ha. And you've seen these guys. These are the dudes reading feminist literature outside of cafes. They're writing poetry, keeping spare tampons and pads in his tote bags because he's an ally. >> Oh my god. >> Is he an ally or ally? >> But obviously people are a little skeptical when it comes to the sincerity of these men. But real quick, you are lying if you say you've never pretended to be interested in a certain topic to attract a specific person. Dude, I remember there was a girl I had a crush on in middle school and she was like a huge fan of the Montreal Canadians. So, obviously, I changed my MSN profile picture to the logo of of the Montreal Canadians. And every week, little 12-year-old Kurt would just be like, "How about that game last night?" And I never watched a single game, dude. I couldn't, okay? I was too busy playing Adventure Quest and watching Chris Angel Mind Freak. But if she knew all of that, she wouldn't have talked to me. I mean, she didn't really talk to me that much about the hockey team either, but still. Obviously, it's a little different pretending to like a hockey team and then pretending to think like women are people, but hockey, feminism, it's I think everybody has been performative to an extent. I'm a different person with my grandparents than I am with my best friends. It's a part of life. We put on slightly different performances uh based on who we're with. Look at Travis Kelce with his ex. And now look at Travis Kelce with his current partner. But this trend of performative feminist men has absolutely exploded these past few months. And I unfortunately have been lumped into this group mostly because I look a lot like these dudes. Mullet, mustache, tattoos, you know, and I can take the criticism to a certain extent, but I got to defend myself a little bit here cuz guys, I have had this look for [ __ ] years, bro. I grew a mullet way back in 2020. I grew a mustache a year after that and I started getting tattooed 12 years ago. >> Do not cite the deep magic to me, which I was there when it was written. And also, dude, the whole reason that performative males are doing this is so they can get with women. I'm married, you [ __ ] idiots. I've been with my wife for like 10 years, dude. Leave me alone. So, I want to get ahead of any of these boring ass [ __ ] tweets that are going to 100% they're going to screenshot this thumbnail and the title, and they're going to be like, "But the call is coming from inside the house, not the pot calling the kettle black." Because every few months, dude, like clockwork, a tweet making fun of how I look will do [ __ ] numbers, dude. And people will tag me like [ __ ] crazy. And I've had enough. Okay, I am putting my foot down. Don't be sad. She's an old foot. She's had a very long life. It's okay. Exhibit A. So, so, so sick of seeing this genre of man. And this is the one that started it all. Picture of me and Idubbbz. Going to say I had to look way before him. Okay. Hello. Prepare for me to periodically pop up throughout this video because while I was editing, I found more stuff and also thought of more stuff. So, I don't know if you guys have seen this, but uh this so so so sick of the genre of man screenshot. It goes viral every few months. You know, it does suck to see it all the time, but I've realized, you know, over the years that it's it's actually like bringing people together, which is really nice. I've seen like dozens of right-wing alpha male bros make fun of how I look because of this picture. But that's not all. Okay, I actually just saw this page, women's rights news, which is a page dedicated to intersectional feminism, gender equality, pro-choice, abortion rights, and health and reproductive rights. All those are great in my books. Um, but they also just reposted it as well. So, you know, that one stings extra hard. But, you know, it is comforting to know that no matter where you stand on feminism, both sides both sides can agree that I look dumb. That's that's nice. If you guys are so pro-choice, then you guys should be okay with the choice I made to get this [ __ ] haircut and stupid mustache, bro. Shame. Shame on you guys. And another one. There's a factory out there manufacturing this specific kind of man, and I'm going to find it and compromise its structural integrity with a pressure cooker. Hobo Johnson. Come on. What is this genre of man called? 9 million views. Dude, I used to love this picture of me, and I would like to formally apologize for its consequences. Oh yeah, and this one, we got a video next. Is this a safe space to say that I have a strong dislike for this specific type of man? Oh yeah, got me good. Ouch, that one stings. How dare you put me in a slideshow with Jacob Allorti and Hassan [ __ ] How will I recover from that one? And then there's the most recent one. Performative male or 1980s serial killer. How many can you guess correctly? And then there's pictures of guys with mustaches. And you know what? I'll admit that one's pretty funny. You know, at least it's creative. It is pretty shocking seeing how similar I look to a 1980s serial killer, but not as shocking as the number of people I killed in the8s. Also, hey, I think an easy way to tell which one uh is the serial killer is if the photo you're looking at is a mug shot. I don't know if the guy posing for a selfie with an AirPod in his ear is the 1980s serial killer. And some of the comments on this post are [ __ ] crazy. There's no difference. One kills your body and the other one kills your soul. How bro felt after commenting that. Also, very funny to say that there's no difference and then immediately explain the difference. Thankfully, people are defending me in the comments though, so that is very nice of them. Thank you guys. Kurt, don't listen to them. We won't let them hurt you. Curtis has been rocking a bullet and a mustache. A bullet. Curtis has been rocking a mullet and a mustache forever. And he has a wife. I don't think he's preformative. Jokes on you. I am preformative. I'm a fetus. How is Curtis up here with the others? Man does a video on the game chair. Is that secretly a feminist performance? First off, not a chair. >> That's a chair. >> But yes, it is actually. That video of me sitting alone on a video gear command center crying about my dead stepfather. That was actually done to impress people. Like, why the [ __ ] do I get looped in with this [ __ ] I don't understand. My last video was me and my friend playing with a Mind Flex. If you watch that video and you were like, "What a performative, man." You actually have a hollow head. There's nothing in there. Hello again. So, while I was editing this video, I found like way more examples of this, but I saw one in particular that was just truly batshit insane. There was an Instagram reel with a wolf in sheep's clothing, and it also had the classic picture of me and Idubbbz in it at the end. So, first off, you're calling me a wolf. Okay, that's [ __ ] cool. Thank you. Wolves are awesome. Inside of me are two wolves and I am both of them. But that wasn't the craziest part of it, dude. The craziest part was the comment on this Instagram reel that got 6300 likes. I'm super happy. I'm super happy are finally recognizing Curtis as performative. For real, he honestly pisses me off. How is he performative? What did he do? It just be the vibes, Lo. Like every time he talks about politics, it's so surface level and safe. And he talks about them a lot. He'll just say stuff like, "Guys, now hurting people is not cool. OB, I'm calling this now. One day some things are going to come up about him cuz I don't know, there's something that's just off." >> Hey, dude. And I say this with so much love. Touch grass. Literally, open your front door and walk outside. It will do wonders for your brain. I promise. This is why I try to ignore anything I see about me on the internet because people are just so [ __ ] cooked, man. Like, could you imagine if a judge was like, "Now, I know all the evidence points towards the crime being committed by a completely different person, but I don't know. It just be the vibes loc. >> Send him to the electric chair at once." >> And also, dude, this part of the comment, he only talks about politics at the surface level. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a comedian, man. I don't have a [ __ ] degree in politics. I'm What? And also, I don't think this person does either based on all their [ __ ] spelling mistakes, dude. Sorry I don't give a [ __ ] 100,000word dissertation in my videos every time I talk about [ __ ] politics, bro. And I'm sorry if you're clicking on my videos expecting that. You're an idiot. I feel like I've uh subtracted IQ points from my brain after researching [ __ ] for this video, but I just had to talk about that after seeing that cuz that was truly wild. What the [ __ ] are we talking about, guys? Let's Let's all just go outside. All right, back to me. I guess I've made several videos sort of denouncing toxic masculinity and misogyny and stuff. So I guess so I guess I'm performative for doing that. But I mean that's and obviously it's annoying to see people, you know, make assumptions about you and your character. I'm not going to sit here and be like, I don't care what anybody says about me cuz then I'd be lying. And to an extent, I think you could call any YouTuber or creator performative because you're only seeing what they choose to show you. This is a performance for an audience. Okay? And don't get me wrong, I understand the frustration towards this type of man because it can be hard to discern when people are being genuine or not. So, with this video, I want to figure out if there is actually a foolproof way to learn whether or not a man is actually being performative. And according to engagement farmers on the internet, I am an authority figure on this subject apparently. So, what I say goes. I have compiled a small sample of performative males and I thought it'd be fun to look at some of the accused and together we will get to the bottom of this. So, let's start with our first performative male. >> I think it's really funny that I dress like this and give off like tough like a tough sort of thing going on. Um, and then I cried to Phoebe Brides in the shower and I listen to Crosse and Boy Genius. >> And um, the dichotomy is crazy, but uh, I don't even listen to hardcore music that much. Look at this shirt. It's my friend's tattoo brand. Anyway, um, I'm going to go later. >> All right, bro. That was not I didn't like that. I did not like watching that one. It's a little weird to cry to Phoebe Brides in the shower. She'll be fine. Micious water. I think after watching this video, my gut is leaning towards performative cuz like you can dress however you want and listen to whatever you want. Truly, nobody gives a [ __ ] But to set the camera up and then just keep talking and then just post all of that. Come on, man. I do feel bad that people were really making fun of him for this, but like I don't know. You got to have a little self-awareness, pal. You know what I mean? Could you imagine someone saying this to you in person? Crazy how I like look this way, but like I'm sensitive and [ __ ] A >> I actually think boy genius should be called girl genius cuz they are. >> Where'd you go? And also, hey man, I'll say it. >> I'm about to say it. >> The dichotomy isn't crazy. It's really not. I would not assume that this guy listens to hardcore music. Like, not even for a second. Have you ever been to a hardcore show? No one actually dresses like that, dude. Dude, every guy at a hardcore show dresses like a [ __ ] software developer, okay? They're all nerds, man. I feel like if you wore that exact outfit to a hardcore show, people would assume you are an undercover cop. Greetings, fellow rock and rollers. The dichotomy is crazy. And what rhymes with dichotomy? I got to be, as in I got to be doing some hard drugs tonight. Who has some? This video was posted by a guy named Sam Wilmont. And after this video went viral, he sadly deleted his Tik Tok. Um, I guess he Wilmont lived that down. [Music] So, because he deleted his Tik Toks, the only Tik Toks I could find of his were ones that people stitched, like this one. >> So, I guess you're funny because I 100% am baby girl. I spent my Sunday um journaling. >> Yeah. So, I guess another performative male stereotype is journaling, which I'm not even 100% sure like what that is exactly. Okay, I just looked it up. Journaling is the act of writing what you have done each day. Sometimes including your private thoughts, feelings, and goals. Okay, so like a diary. It's a diary. Right? Your masculinity is so fragile, you can't even use the word diary. Come on, bro. Man up. Man up and call that [ __ ] a diary. Okay. And you can use it as a verb, I'm sure. Right. Yeah, I spent my Sunday diarrhea. Also, maybe this is just because I'm uh immature, but personally, I can't picture a dude like genuinely like sitting down and journaling. I don't want to say like guys can't journal, but I just like me personally, I can't picture doing that. I just feel like guys don't take things seriously enough to actually do that, right? Especially someone who's pretending to journal to get with women. >> Hey, what are you doing? Oh, this is so embarrassing. I'm uh I'm journaling. Oh my god, I love that. What do you write in your journal? I think the better question is what don't I write in my journal? From my deepest darkest fears to my hopes and dreams and anything in between, it's it's a glimpse into the inner workings of my mind. tonight. I find it really therapeutic to just get out my thoughts and feelings on paper. That's beautiful. >> Yeah, it is. >> Yeah. I've got a large iced matcha latte for Braxton. >> That's me. I'll be right back. I'll be here. What the [ __ ] Ew. This is what matcha tastes like? I hate this more than women voting. Aw, he's the worst. When it comes to [ __ ] doctor dichotomy over here, I can't say for certain if he's being performative or not because I don't know him personally, right? But I mean, if the shoe fits, you know, if the Doc Martin fits, I guess my main critique really is he just set the camera up and then just like said all of these things about himself. You know, if this was a candid video of him genuinely weeping in the shower to Phoebe Brides, then I'd be humming a different tune. So, until I get that video, for now, I am going to give this guy the stamp. Okay, he is footworn. Let's take a look at the next suspect. >> Do you get attached after stacks? >> Do I get attached after making love? Um, >> do you make love to everyone? >> Yeah, everyone. I don't want to. >> It's a big decision, you know, to let someone in and be comfortable with them. >> Oh, brother. >> So, yeah, I do make love with people I make love with. >> What? Dude, even if he is being 100% genuine, I cannot believe this is a real guy. Dude, that's crazy. And I feel like you can tell when guys are purposely making their voice lower. Don't get me wrong, I did that all the time when I was 13. But that's when you're supposed to do it, dude. I was a literal child walking around school like, "Yo, guys, my mommy packed me Lunchables today." >> But come on, bro. You're an adult. >> I fall in love so fast and I'm so sensitive and I'm very picky. >> Yeah, I don't know if I buy it, pal. This is the type of dude to like say all this and then like love bomb you like crazy and then just ghost you forever, you know? Also, speaking of guys, we got to call love bombing something else. Okay, we got to change that name. Love bomb. That sounds like a big hug or something, right? Here comes a love bomb. I think it should be used for like if you haven't seen someone in a really long time. Okay, maybe if a loved one comes back from a vacation finally, you meet them at the airport and you scream as loud as you can in the airport. Here comes a love bomb. Okay, sorry. Back to the Tik Tok. I forgot I didn't show you the end. I didn't show you the end of the Tik Tok. It's the best part. I tend to really be into it and I get attached. >> Imagine that's not even part of the video. Those were just transmitted into the cameraman's brain. >> Leave me alone. >> Akira. >> I think it's safe to say this motorcycle man is being a tad performative. I think he's trying to seem more deep and emotional than he actually is. You know, because when the girl asked him that question, he could have just said, "Yes. Yes, I do get attached after sex." He could have just said yes. But no, dude. He had to pull all that [ __ ] I never use the word [ __ ] I say make love. >> Yo, nice motorcycle [ __ ] >> Make love off, man. But again, this is the hard part of figuring out cuz like maybe who knows, maybe this guy is actually like that. We don't know. It's really hard to tell, but I mean and I hate to do two in a row, but my gut is telling me he gets a stand, too. Okay, he is performative as well. I'm sorry. Okay, let's look at another guy. When you've been performative reading foreign affairs magazine for 20 minutes, but forgot to pretend to turn the page. Okay, sorry this man isn't reading quick enough for you. Really? Do you think Albert Einstein breezed through every single book he read? No. He probably read the same page over and over and over again until he thoroughly understood it. And you're just laughing at this guy. This man is trying to figure out a way to stop foreign people from cheating on their spouses and you're laughing. I assume that's what Foreign Affairs magazine is about. I am unfamiliar. And also I hate this video cuz like you could just be lying. Maybe he was turning the pages. You just caught him while he was not turning the pages and you can be like, "Yeah, he was actually on the page for 20 minutes." Like, we don't know if you were [ __ ] lying or not, right? Drop the extended cut of this TikTok. Okay, the director's cut. And I will say, okay, if I can be earnest, it does objectively suck to make fun of someone for reading in public. Like, sure, if a guy is reading a Ben Shapiro book in public, for sure make fun of him, dude. That guy's a [ __ ] loser. But the whole thing with performative males is like they're out in public reading [ __ ] Sylvia Pla or Margaret Atwood. And I think it's kind of counterintuitive to shame men for reading progressive literature. when people often complain about men not reading enough progressive literature, right? Hello again for a third time. I wanted to touch on something really quick. After talking to my wife about this topic, uh she actually brought up a really good point that I didn't think about myself. Uh which is actually kind of the point in and of itself. As a man, I'm a male. >> I will never relate to or fully understand a book like The Handmaid's Tale or The Bell Jar or Janeire because I don't personally know what it's like to be a woman and I never will. Like that is a completely different lived experience. And I will never in my life know what that is truly like. That's like if I read the Malcolm X autobiography and I was like, damn, he's just like me for real. Like that'd be insane. So I do understand why women assume men aren't being genuine when they read feminist books, especially in public. Like if you and your friends had a secret handshake and then one day you saw other people doing the exact same secret handshake, you'd be like, "What the [ __ ] bro? That's our [ __ ] That's our thing. You don't know anything about that. Stop at once." Kind of like that, but not at all. I don't know. I don't know if that's a good comparison or not. But I think the point I'm trying to make is although men won't ever like 100% fully relate to a book about what it's like to be a woman. It definitely couldn't hurt in the long run to read a book like that and at least try to learn something new and better yourself. Like I'm sure these books are way more beneficial to read if you want to improve yourself than those [ __ ] books that are like # [ __ ] that [ __ ] 100 beast mode tips to level up your life like a boss. Forward by Gary Ve's hairline. That's what I was trying to say. But uh back to the video. I'm sure I'll see you again. And I know this whole thing is a joke and a meme, and I understand why girls are making fun of dudes for doing [ __ ] like this because, you know, to be fair, I guess women have been made fun of for doing anything publicly for like the forever. So, it's only fair, but at the same time, and I hate to be that friend that's too woke, but I think making fun of dudes who are genuinely interested in feminist literature and automatically labeling them as performative or manipulative, I don't know. I feel like it's probably going to discourage them and other young men from engaging and adapting more feminist and progressive ideologies. Right. Call me crazy, but I'd rather a guy read the same page of a foreign affairs magazine for 20 minutes than sit down and listen to 3 hours of the Joe Rogan Experience. It kind of brings me back to what I mentioned at the beginning of the video, how it's kind of just like a weird time to be a a man on the internet right now. There's been like a calculated targeting of young men from conservative news outlets and the current administration in the United States. In the 2024 election, 54% of young men voted for Donald Trump, a convicted felon with several essay accusations against him, that is 54% too many in my opinion. So, if there are dudes out there genuinely engaging in feminist progressive literature, that is good. I think also like when did reading a book become performative? You know, it's books, dude. They're books. You're going to walk into a library, see a little kid reading the Rainbow Fish, and be like, "Hey, somebody come get their performative ass kid." Bro, I guess if you don't want to be made fun of for reading in public, you just got to read a book that isn't performative at all. I'm trying to think of the like the least performative book a man can read in public. I mean, it's got to be the 2001 Guinness Book of World Records, right, dude? Whipping that [ __ ] out at a coffee shop, dude. Oh my god, that would be so badass. You don't even order a coffee there either, dude. and you whip out that big purple book and you slam a [ __ ] 2 L of Mountain Dew on that table and then you read that [ __ ] and every time you flip to a new page you go whoa cool. >> Okay, we're going to move on to the next performative male. Now, this next guy is named Montaine, but some of you guys might recognize this guy from this epic rap video he made. >> I never get tired of the hate. You got to be good. And I know the hate comments only happen boy. >> And then obviously everybody was calling him the cut boy guy. But this guy makes a lot of videos where he's like, "Do you guys want to hear another disgusting secret about men that they don't want you to know?" And then he'll just go on to say a bunch of stuff that doesn't really make sense to me. >> Okay. His standards while he's drinking are not the standards that he's going to have when he wakes up. So they boy. >> But he uploaded a video recently that some people have labeled as performative. So let's check that one out. Every single man that you will ever meet for the rest of your days as a single person, okay? Is simply a combination of every woman's cool traits that he knew before you met him. That is it. That every cool guy ran through or not is simply just a combination of every cool woman that came before you. >> Yeah. I think that's just being a person. I think that's just being a human. Everyone you meet is a product of every person that they've ever come into contact with. I think that's just a human experience, right? I don't know if it's just exclusive to women though, you know, like you can develop cool traits from men as well. I think, right, there are many men in my life that have rubbed off on me. Not like that. Hold up. Not like that. >> I wish. But the way Kore worded this implies that every trait that men possess is solely from women. Even if you meet the most evil, hateful, racist, misogynistic man in the entire world. Again, that is a woman's fault that he is like that. Okay, good message, man. It also sounds [ __ ] terrifying, dude. Every man is just a combination of every woman he's ever met. That's horror movie [ __ ] dude. Imagine you show up for a blind date and the man waiting for you has the arm of a woman he met at the grocery store, the legs of his mom, the eyeballs of his second grade English teacher, the mouth of his ex-girlfriend, and he's just like, this is also frustrating because like, dude, his video implies that men are incapable of being good role models for other men, which is just untrue. Don't get me wrong, there are obviously millions of bad role models uh for men out there, especially on the internet. I feel like the bar is pretty low to be considered a good role model for men. But still, that doesn't mean there aren't positive traits that you can get from the men in your life, right? For example, my stepfather, may he rest in peace, he taught me so much, dude. He showed me how to cut my hands underneath a hand dryer in the perfect way to make a really loud fart sound. Good men exist in terms of being performative. Kaboa genuinely seems like at least a little more genuine than the other guys, which is kind of crazy. He had every opportunity to become a full-on right-wing grifter after everybody made fun of him for the [ __ ] K Boy thing. But, you know, he stuck to his guns and he kept making this content, you know, and I got to respect that. I do find this video in particular a little ironic though because his caption for this obviously pro women video is Brandy Twitter, Brandy Melville. Bro, Brandy Melville. >> How the hell are you going to make a video essentially saying men are only cool because every woman they've ever met is unique and different and distinctive? And right below that, you're like, "Anyways, I got this sweater from a place that makes clothing for strictly skinny girls." It's just a little odd to like hype up women while you're wearing a sweater from a company with a long history of bigotry and body shaming towards women specifically. Dare I say it, the dichotomy is crazy. But like I said, this trend of performative males or the trend of making fun of them at least has absolutely exploded. And when things get popular these days, they have a contest about it in local parks. So, I have seen tons of videos on Tik Tok of these performative male contests all over North America where dudes will show up and perform as performative males to win the title of most performative male. This one was actually kind of cool. It was kind of like a fashion show where each contestant walked and showed off their books and tote bags and lattes and it's actually bringing people together, which is actually kind of nice. But I got to say, you guys are [ __ ] amateurs, bro. Coming from the leader of the performative males, you guys blew it. I know an easy way to win this [ __ ] While everyone is walking in the circle showing off their stuff to the crowd, here's what you do. You hang out on the outskirts of the circle and you're eating the Handmaid's Tail and you're sipping a matcha latte. You're not even paying attention to the [ __ ] contest that's going on because you're too cool for that [ __ ] And that's when you pull out the Claro record and then you [ __ ] drive out of there, dude. A few weeks later, you'll get your prize in the mail. Performative now. >> And hey, these contests are fun and silly, but also they kind of bum me out a little bit. mostly because one of these contests use a [ __ ] picture of me on the flyer. But also, what started as a very fair critique uh about men who feain interest in feminism to attract women, it has kind of devolved into, "Hey, look at this guy reading a book. What a [ __ ] [ __ ] Let's kill them." And I know it's tongue and cheek, but I don't know. I just feel like all these contests are a little ironic to me. I feel like the type of dudes who would enter this contest are only there to be like, "Ladies, don't guys like this suck? I'm not like these performative males that you hate so much. therefore you should sleep with me instead. Which is exactly what the performative males are doing in the first place that you're making fun of. Right? And this isn't the first time a trend like this has happened either. History repeats itself on the internet every few years. Okay? I made a video back in like 2019 about soft boys, which were like, you know, quiet, artsy guys. You know, they act like a sweet, innocent boy, but in reality, they're they're doing all that just to hook up with girls, right, dude? It's the exact same. And before that, in [ __ ] 2012, it was hipsters who rode [ __ ] fixy bikes and dressed like lumberjacks while listening to Mumford and Sons. Okay, it is a constant cycle. It never ends. And to be honest, I don't know if making fun of like actual performative men, I don't know if that's going to make them better people either, which sucks. I think if they're genuinely like being performative and then they get called out on it, I think they're just going to drop the act and become even bigger [ __ ] And like, is that better? I don't I don't know if it is. Do you want guys reading [ __ ] Jordan Peterson books in public instead? No, of course not. if they're skimming through like some feminist literature, maybe they'll catch a stray at least, you know, shred of knowledge, you know, who knows? I just really hope that this trend isn't giving people the impression that being progressive and reading feminist literature is a bad thing and that you deserve to be made fun of for doing so. Sadly, it's like already making men like proud of not reading books. Like this video I found of a guy bragging about being an anti-performative man. He has got videos of him lifting weights, you know, and watching sports, pictures of him playing video games, which when you think about it is very funny because he's like saying all this, he's not a performative man, but like he's kind of just performing for a different group of people, which kind of brings me to the point I'm I think I'm trying to make in this video. Like I said in the beginning, it's a very odd time to be a guy. So, I mean, it's kind of a weird time to be a person in general. But for centuries, humans have performed for one another to a certain degree. It's literally what we do. We dress a certain way to let people know what we're all about. We talk different ways with different friend groups and people often exaggerate things about themselves to seem a little more attractive to people, right? Even in the animal kingdom, this exists, dude. Peacocks, chill, bro. Those are the most performative creatures in the world, dude. Like, bro, we get it. To be fair, I would be extra as hell, too, if my name was peacock. Dude, that sucks. That's like being named poop butt. But with the rise of social media and the fact that everybody has a topofthe-line video camera in their pocket 24/7, we now have to subconsciously perform for everybody all the time, even when we're not using our phone. People put specific things for their profile picture in their bio. Like, you're putting on this persona that you want to show others. It's just all a performance all the time to every single person in the world forever cuz you don't know when you'll end up as the subject or if you're lucky, the background character of someone's [ __ ] TikTok. And this happened to me, dude. I went to a Blue Jays game last summer and I ended up in the background of these [ __ ] kids selfies and then one of those kids' sister posted a [ __ ] Tik Tok about it. Look at that. I look like [ __ ] Now when I'm out and about, I got to do this all the time. I'm just In all seriousness, I think to live is to perform. And you kind of have to accept that everyone in your life is performing to a certain extent. So, it's important to have like genuine conversations with the people in your life to see what they're actually all about. I feel like I use this analogy a lot, but it's it's kind of like the philosopher stone or the sorcerer stone to the Americans, like instead of trying to use a false interest in feminism to attract women. If you just genuinely like read feminist literature and actually learned like the basic ethical principles of feminism, I feel like in turn, you will just naturally become a better, more well-rounded human being, which in turn will make you more attractive to women, which is what you want in the first place, dude. So, everybody wins, dude. Ladies, you got to start quizzing these dudes. Oh, you're a feminist. Name five songs. In conclusion, if you are a young man watching this video, dress how you want, listen to what you want, drink what you want, but make sure it is what you want. Don't try to change who you are to attract people because it is not going to work in the long run. Okay? And that is coming from a happily married man. Okay? I know what I'm talking about. These other [ __ ] dudes who are like, "I'm an alpha male. This is how men are. They're all single, dude. They're they're alone. They're lonely." I know what I'm talking about. And also, I will say this, you can call me performative all you want. Reading books is good. Okay, when you're done watching this video, don't click off. When you're done watching this video, go read some. Okay, I will say the block is a little hot right now for us fellas. So, if you do want to read feminist literature, which I think you should, don't do it in public right now. Okay, it's not going to bode well for you. Here's what you do. Okay, you go out middle of the night and you perch on the ledge of a skyscraper in the rain like Batman and you alone secretly you can finally read your copy of the bell jar. And if people still somehow make fun of you for that, just know people are only hating cut. Hello again. For the last time, I was going to end the video here, but I feel like I missed out on some points that I wanted to address. I touched on everybody wait. >> No, I didn't. I touched on everybody being quote unquote performative all the time because of social media. But I feel like I didn't talk enough about how people are using the word performative in this particular sense. I just want to drive the point home that seeing a man dress or behave in a feminine way and automatically labeling him as performative is really just a creative like roundabout way to perpetuate patriarchal ideologies. Because what you're essentially saying is men should only look one particular way and that is big and >> tough and manly. while women are the ones that should be behaving in this more feminine way when in reality people should be free to look and behave any way they want to regardless of societal gender norms. You know, like I swear this performative male trend feels like a [ __ ] anti-woke scop that was created so young people can like covertly engage in like 1950s sexism, you know? Like it hearkens back to like the '9s and the early 2000s when people were using the term metrosexual. You remember that [ __ ] Like if a guy just brushed his teeth and got regular haircuts, people were like, "What the [ __ ] bro? Go Mr. Metroexual over here, dude." But again, I think making jokes about performative men is fine, you know, cuz I [ __ ] just did that for a half hour. But to be honest, I really don't know if any of these guys I talked about in this video are actually performative because I don't personally know them. Just like how those people on the internet were labeling me as performative, right? They don't personally know me either. So, I'm no better than the people I was complaining about if I'm over here labeling all these dudes as performative as well, right? So, with that, I would like to revoke all my performative stamps that I gave out during this video. And I would like to replace all of them with a cornball stamp, okay? Because I can say with full confidence that all those videos I watched were corny as [ __ ] okay? Moral of the video, someone pretending to be someone they're not in order to like get laid, that's gross. No matter what, that's disgusting. But it's especially gross if the person they are pretending to be is a feminist because that adds a whole other layer to it. You know, feminism is the advocation of gender equality. So if you're pretending to think of women as your equal in order to have sex with them, then therefore that means you like automatically think less of them, which is kind of [ __ ] crazy. So if someone is doing that, make fun of them like crazy. They absolutely deserve it. I don't know if someone is just [ __ ] reading a book, drinking a little green drink, and carrying a tote bag. All the power to it, man. Go nuts. But my mission at the beginning of the video was to see if there's an actual definitive way to tell if a man is being performative. Like, how can you really like see 100% for certain that a man is performative? And I think if you really want to see a performative male, you should come see me perform at one of my shows. I am literally a man performing all over Canada in November and December. These are all the cities. And guys, tickets are still available to my special taping in Toronto. It's going to be awesome. Okay, thank you so much for watching. I hope you guys enjoyed it. If you did, please press the like button, okay? Because believe it or not, one like equals one mustache hair I will pluck from my face. Yeah, leave a comment. Let me know what you think about all this [ __ ] Um, I feel like this is one of those videos that people will be much more knowledgeable than than I am about this. And I'm excited to read the comment. All right, that's it. I would stick around, but unfortunately I have some diarrheaing I got to do. See you.
