Folks, you guys remember Magcon? I sure wish I didn't. For those of you who are unaware, Magcon or Meet and Greet Convention was a massive touring event back in the day featuring various teenage boy influencers. These guys would take super normal pictures with their fans and also even perform on stage. And I am using the word perform very loosely. The original Magcon crew consisted of Cameron Dallas, Nash Grier, Shawn Mendes, Matthew Espinosa, Taylor Caniff, Jack and Jack, Aaron Carpenter, and Carter Reynolds. Now, I could talk about all these dudes at length and what they're all up to these days, but I'm not going to do that because one, that sounds super boring, and two, I don't give a I'm only going to be talking about one of these boys today because last week I was minding my own business scrolling TikTok while taking an upper decker in my own toilet. And for whatever reason, my TikTok algorithm decided to show me the newest video from the head honcho of Magcon, Cameron Dallas. TikTok subsequently sent me down a really weird, sad rabbit hole. And after finding out what Cameron Dallas is up to these days, and especially learning about the new business that he started, I knew I had to make a video about this. That's right, guys, it's time for triple D. Not Diners, Drive-Ins, and Dives, but Dallas Deep Dive. I think it'd be beneficial if we first did a quick recap {slash} rundown on Cameron Dallas. You probably know him from this picture. I don't really feel like making fun of him for this picture because, you know, who among us doesn't have a red carpet photo that haunts us later in life? >> [screaming] >> But back to Cameron. In 2014, Cameron Dallas exploded in popularity due to his epic selfies and hilarious Vines. >> Just want to remind you guys to smile because you're beautiful just the way you are and you're not worthless. Whatever you're going through, you can get through it, I promise. >> He quickly amassed millions of adoring fans. He toured all over the world with Magcon. And with his new found success, Cameron Dallas began branching out into traditional media. He modeled for Dolce & Gabbana. Yeah, both of them. He starred in the Awesomeness TV original movie titled Expelled along with a few other acting roles as well. And then in 2015, he released his debut single She [snorts] Bad. Cameron also had his own documentary series on Netflix in 2016 titled Chasing Cameron. And in 2020, Cameron Dallas made his Broadway debut as Aaron Samuels in Mean Girls. And this is where he really got to showcase his acting chops. >> Wait, what's happening? >> I mean, give this guy a Tony already. >> Wait, what's happening? >> Is he Tom Holland's Peter Parker? Cuz this guy needs a Tony. >> Oh, brother. >> Cameron's artistic career would sadly take a backseat in the coming years while he devoted his time to becoming a father and also launching several businesses, which we will get to later. But recently, he's been getting back into the music scene. And I found out about this from the TikTok that I saw while I was on the toilet. It was a video of Cameron Dallas dunking his head in a pool and lip-syncing to his brand new song SOS. If that video was muted, it's because this video got copyright claimed, okay? But this song SOS by Cameron Dallas sounded very weird to me. The vocals didn't really sound like a human actually sang them. And something just seemed off about it. So, I went down to the comments and I immediately saw heaps and heaps of AI-generated music allegations thrown at Mr. Dallas. This broke my heart. Cameron Dallas, the singer of She Bad? He would never. So, I was distraught. I immediately rushed to Cameron's Spotify page and that's when I saw in the past 6 months, Cameron Dallas has put out six full-length albums. You're telling me a computer can do all that? >> Yes. [screaming] >> Since when? Okay, sorry. I I just checked and uh as of this morning, he has uploaded seven albums. I'm filming this on August 1st, okay? I I think he's genuinely just uploading an album every single month this year, dude. All jokes aside, an ex-mag con star putting out shitty AI music is about as surprising as finding out the age of Leonardo DiCaprio's new girlfriend. But, it's really frustrating because Cam's out here posting these lip-sync videos like these are real songs, you know? When he has actual real songs on his Spotify that he's made, he's personally made them. Just lip-sync those ones, dude. What are you doing? When I first saw these AI music TikToks, I was like >> Wait, what's happening? >> But, Cam's been posting these shitty AI music lip-sync TikToks like non-stop. And, they're like low-key like hard to watch, man. He's posted over 100 of these videos since May, okay? I counted. And, I feel bad for him kind of cuz it's like if my buddy was posting these TikToks, I'd be like, "Yo, are you good? What's going on, man?" It is fitting though that a majority of these AI lip-sync videos are filmed while he's swimming in a pool. Enjoy that water, Cam. If you keep producing AI albums at your current rate, you're not going to have it for that much longer, man. I couldn't find any comments from Cam like confirming all of these songs were made with AI. But, that's only because he's apparently been deleting them. I found this comment thread on one of his recent TikToks. But, with AI is not really you making it. And, this person has a response to Cameron Dallas. I support actual artists and don't use AI, brother. You don't have to wait. So, obviously, he responded to this and then deleted it. So, this looks like she's just talking to herself. This person said, "What did he say?" He defended himself using AI because the tools are public. Told me to do it and that he'll wait. So, I said, "I only support real artists so he doesn't have to wait." Then, in another comment, he said, "My fav artist also uses same tools he does and use more and more AI." And, then said he didn't need me to support his music and called me a Someone calling you out for putting out AI music and then you call them a That's crazy. Also, pretty insane to be like, "Oh, if you don't like my music, you don't have to support my music." And, it's like, "Dude, it's not yours. You didn't do anything. You didn't make it." You literally went like, "Hey, computer, going to a song." That's like if you were up like a new Instagram account when you pick the super complicated auto-generated password suggestion. You were just like >> Wow, okay. How did I think of that password? >> But while we're talking about his comment section, dude, he says the weirdest things to people. >> This is how you end up on my for you page. >> This is my app. >> This is sad. >> Honestly, I'll spare you. Turn it off. You have been spared. >> And I was like, what the is he sparing people from? Like what is this guy capable of, you know? >> And then I found out. >> And the crowd goes silent. >> Just harvested your energy. >> You can do that? >> Cameron, if you're watching this, please don't do that to me. >> Pretty insane comments though, man. >> You've been spared. Just harvested your energy. >> Those are things that can only be said while sitting on a medieval throne. >> Like these are the comments that you'd see if you gave an evil warlock an iPhone. >> It's just so weird for him to respond with such malice to the overwhelmingly negative feedback he's receiving. >> Like what what did he expect was going to happen? >> This is probably what Cameron said when he saw the negative feedback. >> Wait, what's happening? >> I'm going to be using that clip so much going forward. I hope that's okay with you guys. >> And furthermore, the last few videos on the official Cameron Dallas YouTube page are just shitty weird-looking AI music videos for these shitty AI songs. Like who the is this, bro? >> That is not the baby. >> In the description of these videos, it says they were made by this AI artist named Apalina. >> And I think that's quite the oxymoron, man. >> Calling yourself an AI artist is like calling yourself a humane puppy strangler. You know, it's like I don't know if that exists. >> found this other channel on YouTube called >> After Hour Labs with a bunch of weird ugly ass AI music videos. But one of their music videos is for a Cameron Dallas song called Hey Mister. Sidebar, >> lamest song title I've ever heard. 1940s paperboy ass song, dude. >> Hey Mister. >> But the other weird thing I noticed about this YouTube channel is there's a music video for a song called My Topanga by Chloe. >> Yeah. >> [music] >> But when you go to Cameron's Spotify page for the album Saturdays, there's a song on there called My Tapanga, which is the exact same song from that Chloe music video. And even weirder, the description of this channel is sonic frequencies and visual archives for the late night. High pressure audio meets 2000s digicam nostalgia, light bloom, and neon cybergoth aesthetics. That's a word vomit. That's what that is, okay? That's just word vomit that means nothing, dude. But the weirdest thing below that, there's a link tree and it's to Cameron's It's Cameron Dallas's link tree, dude. And it also says curated by Dallas Global Agency, which we'll talk about later in this video. This weird YouTube page has been active since January and it has, drum roll please, four subscribers, dude. Cameron, you've put out more albums than subscribers gained. That sucks. But I've come to learn that Cameron Dallas has kind of always been an early adapter of AI-generated content. There's this weird-ass AI video he uploaded on his Instagram last year of him swimming underwater with a bunch of sea creatures. He also started an energy drink business with a bunch of shady-looking AI videos on their Instagram page. Like he's been using this for a while now. And if you look at this old post from his LinkedIn that says, "Is anyone down to do an AI music album with me? My idea is to start a label just off this, starting with my own IP, three stars." And another one, "I'm offering $1 million in funding to the first person who creates a compelling pilot episode for an AI-generated series using my image as the lead. It has to be good enough to binge. Go." A million dollars. One mil Like a million. Bro, with a million dollars, you could just make your own pilot episode with real people, dude. That's a quarter of a million dollars more than the Obsession budget. What? What are we doing, Cam? Can I call you Cam? Another sidebar, sorry. The more I learned about Cameron Dallas, like the funnier it was, man. So, just bear with me, but his LinkedIn is so funny because you can so clearly tell when he used chat GPT to write a post and then when it's just him posting, like look at this one. The new culture of influence, power no longer moves top down from institution. It now flows outward from communities, creators, and digital networks. Blah blah blah blah a bunch of and dashes all that crap. Compare that to these ones. BJ's Pizookie is rated number one pizza cookie in the world. No restaurant will ever beat it. >> [laughter] >> The Ritz-Carlton really gave me a maddie bed bugs SMH. Anyone want to make a fast food subscription spot? The duality of man. So Cameron clearly loves AI, but the AI music thing is an interesting choice. Because if I recall, the main criticism towards all the Magcon boys back in the day was like why are these guys even famous? They don't have any talent whatsoever. And it's like Cameron's really not doing a good job of disproving that. But after reading more about Cameron Dallas, the recent AI music play began to make a lot of sense. Gone are the days when Cameron Dallas was in it for the art. >> Wait, what's happening? >> Hate to be the bearer of bad news here, but in the last 10 years, our beloved Cameron Dallas has morphed into one of the worst types of people. A tech bro. >> No! >> [screaming] >> I know, it's heartbreaking, man. Cameron even DM'd me back in 2024 with a business proposition. I mean I'm sure it was probably his management just using his account, but he sent me a message back in 2024 that said, "Hey Curtis, going to be at the Snapchat office next week presenting a bunch of creators to get verified and monetized and think you could crush it. Would you be open to hop on a call to see if it makes sense to work together?" Into that, I responded, "Bring back Magcon and we'll talk, pal." And then he said, "Haha LMFAO, a bit too late for that. But let's get started either way. Would you be down for a quick call Thursday 5:00 p.m. LA time?" I never had a call with him, obviously. It's always heartbreaking when someone becomes a tech bro. It's like he could have been so cool, man. Especially when you take a look at his contemporaries like Shawn Mendes, the voice of Lyle Lyle Crocodile. Matthew Espinosa who's like best friends with Justin Bieber, I guess. Or even Nash Grier who's living like a nice normal life with his wife and children. It's just so crazy when you look at Nash Grier's recent posts about building a soccer field at his house for his daughter. And then you go to Cameron's page and see this. >> How do you sleep without me? Do you believe in what you see? >> is crazy. And I know comparison is the thief of joy or whatever, but like maybe having your joy stolen once in a while can be a good thing. I'm so sorry to tell this to you, but Cameron is a full-blown business boy now. He has started several businesses over the years, okay? >> Eight. >> To be exact. Eight businesses, dude. A luxury clothing rental company, an outdoor umbrella company, an energy drink, a clothing brand, a bouncy castle company. But there are three more companies that he's been a part of that I really want to focus on in this video. And I'm going to save the newest and weirdest business for last because it's insane. But before we get into that, I got to tell you guys about SoFi. That's right, this video is sponsored by SoFi. Folks, >> [music] >> one of the simplest, most powerful ways to build wealth throughout your life is actually earning interest on your savings. Especially if you're young, compound growth is crazy. But unfortunately, most banks pay you next to nothing. Literally a fraction of a percent. Your hard-earned money just sits there doing nothing for you. And honestly, that's rude. That's where SoFi comes in, the everything app for smarter money. With SoFi checking and savings, you can easily track your spending and save towards your specific goals. And get this, with eligible direct deposit, you can actually earn up to eight times the national average savings rate. Yeah, dude, eight times. Heck, you'll even get paid up to two days early with direct deposit. So while all your coworkers are like, "Ah, man, there's still two days till payday." You can just be like, "Yeah, for you. It's not my problem." And right now, you can also earn up to $400 cash bonus when you open a SoFi checking and savings account and set up an eligible direct deposit of at least a thousand dollars. So why are you waiting for your money to earn more money? Open your SoFi checking and savings account today by clicking the link in my description or head to sofi.com/curtis to get started. All right, thank you so much to Sofi for sponsoring this video. Back to me. Hello, welcome back. So, I didn't know this before making this video. Cameron Dallas actually started his tech bro transformation all the way back in 2016 when he started a venture capital fund with none other than Jake Paul. And they called it TGZ Capital, and that stands for Team Gen Z. Cameron Dallas is 31. He is not Gen Z, dude. What a how do you do fellow kids ass name for a VC fund. But then in 2021, Cameron joined a startup company called Fanfix. >> I've been working on a company called Fanfix. >> Comedy. >> No, no. A company. >> An app described as OnlyFans without the nudity. >> So, it's like OnlyFans, but it's non-nudity. It's PG. >> Don't worry, I thought Fanfix was a fan fiction website as well. Just a terribly confusing name if I say so myself. From what I've read, the founders brought Cameron Dallas on as a co-founder so he could help recruit creators onto the app. And a year later, they sold Fanfix for an estimated $65 million. You can make like 65 AI shows with that. And look, I don't know what the deal looked like or what percentage of the company he owned, but even if Cameron owned 5% of that company, he would have made $3 million. So, that begs the question. What are you doing, man? You seemingly have all the time in the world to make all these weird AI lip sync videos. And you clearly have plenty of money to make actual music. What's the point of this weird shitty lazy AI music, man? All it's doing is making you seem lazy and flippant about what you're making. So, automatically, I'm going to assume any other business this guy is a part of is going to be lazy and flippant about what they're making as well. It's like when you walk past a restaurant with AI pictures of their food. Oops, I'm not eating there, I guess. That pisses me off the most, man. Why are we generating AI pictures of a burger when you're a burger restaurant? Make a burger, take a picture of it. What the are we doing? Sorry, back to Cameron. I want to point out something really funny in this Business Insider article about the Fanfix sale. I don't see myself posting TikToks for much longer. I'm going to be in my 30s here pretty soon, and I want to focus on the creator economy behind the scenes. >> if this is behind the scenes, do not go in front of the scenes. Please, I do not want to know what that looks like. But I did a little bit of research on Fanfix, and my goof, there are some bad reviews of this thing. On their Trustpilot, 96% of the reviews are one star, with people mostly criticizing their mishandling of money, their cancellation process or lack thereof, the app's poor performance, and abysmal customer service. There is even a review from someone who claimed Fanfix docs their legal name and hopes to intimidate them for asking for a refund, which is just insane and super dangerous. And it was interesting, too, because several of the reviews were calling out Fanfix for advertising themselves as one thing, but being the complete opposite. They advertised people getting exclusive content from their favorite creators, but several reviews say that the exclusive content is the exact same content that the creator is posting on their public Instagram. And there were several reviews saying that although the brand was advertised as brand safe, there's still a plethora of adult content on the app. not saying there's anything wrong with a consenting adult selling adult content to other consenting adults, you know, do your thing. But like, if a platform is publicly branding itself as OnlyFans without the nudity, but then allowing nudity, I think that's like objectively bad. personal opinion and from what I've read, Fanfix kind of just seems like an OnlyFans clone, but without the stigma that comes with the OnlyFans name, you know? But hey, maybe we give Cameron a pass on that one, cuz he didn't come up with the app. From what I've read, he was just brought on as a co-founder to help recruit creators. Unfortunately, that isn't the case for the next Cameron Dallas business. Dallas Global Agency. >> Finally, another influencer management agency. >> Yes. yeah. I've been waiting for this one, man. >> just never enough of these things. >> Dallas Global Agency empowers creators by maximizing their earnings through strategic brand deals and platform monetization. We connect influencers with top brands providing expert campaign management and growth strategies to scale their digital success. This is the exact bio for every single influencer management agency in the world. What I've gathered from the website Dallas Global Agency is an official TikTok shop partner just like Russell Hartley's fuck-ass company that I talked about recently. But at least Dallas Global Agency isn't charging people to join it which is good. It also says Dallas Global Agency is a creator network and those don't directly take a cut from TikTokers revenue. Apparently they're directly paid by TikTok. So that's cool I guess. I don't want to be misconstrued here. I'm not saying like this dude shouldn't start a business if that's what he wants to do, right? I just think it's a little tricky when like the selling point of the Dallas Global Agency is Cameron Dallas's success on social media. Because when you go to his current TikTok page he's getting ratioed in his comment section, dude. Like that's not a good look for your influencer business, man. If I also worked at Dallas Global Agency I'd be like, "Cam, you got to stop, man. You please stop posting." And maybe I'm wrong but I just don't see the passion, man. It it just feels weird. Like look at the first video on the official Dallas Global Agency TikTok. >> Hey guys, it's Cameron Dallas. This is the official Dallas Global Agency account and our focus is TikTok live. If you want to do TikTok live and you're a small creator, go ahead and apply in our link above. We work with all creators and we're going to be making an impact. >> Making an impact. And it's like, dude, if this is your new business that you're jazzed about, let's put in like a little bit of effort. In a car? In like a puffer j- Like what This is filmed like a birthday video like for your cousin that you forgot to send yesterday. This doesn't seem like an introduction to your new business. >> Hey guys, I just started a new business. It's like my life's work or whatever. Check it out. >> Pretty much all the TikToks on this page are brutal. >> Create content around skin care, [music] hair, makeup, listen up. My agency is working with so many beauty brands, it's actually kind of crazy. They need [music] creators like you to do UGC brand deals, TikTok live. [music] >> Turn the music down. >> to plug you into these opportunities. >> Can't hear you. Dude, you got to watch it back before you post it, buddy. It's like rule number one. It's like this dude barely even knows how to post a TikTok, and I'm supposed to like take his advice on how to become a successful creator. >> one, [music] music loud as People don't really care about what you're talking about. They want to hear the music. >> I was curious about how this management company works, so I joined their free Discord server. And it was mostly small creators self-promoting, or people who worked for the agency spamming a bunch of TikTok webinars. Cameron did pop into the server one time, and he said, "Hello. So, no one talks in here?" Me at the library. So, no one talks in here? >> [laughter] >> But no, for the past year, this Discord server has been virtually empty. Like nobody talks in there at all, or does anything. Empty in the channels that I can see, anyway. So, I'm not really sure what the deal is with that. There were people posting about how much they loved Cameron Dallas back in the day, so maybe they joined the server because they assumed they'd be able to talk to Cameron Dallas. But once they realized they couldn't do that, they were like, >> Wait, what's happening? >> From an outsider's perspective, it seems like Dallas Global Agency is just quantity over quality, like any other TikTok creator network. They sign up as many TikTokers as they can. So, if some of those TikTokers do well on their live streams, then TikTok will pay that agency. Not like there's anything wrong with that, it's just like that's what that's what you want to spend your time on. I don't know, it's just weird to me. It feels like this term is spammed all the time now, but like this Cameron Dallas doing this, recession indicator. 100% this is a recession indicator, okay? Recession indicator, I hardly know of all of Cameron's businesses, this does seem like the most legitimate one, though. It says on their Instagram page that Golden is one of their clients, so it seems like they're doing okay. Like in the grand scheme of TikTok creator agencies or whatever, it seems pretty normal. It's light-years better than Russell Hartley's, so you know, I got to give him that, I guess. Again, I feel like I say this every time I make a video, but I did not think it was going to be this long. But dude, the Cameron Dallas well is much deeper than I originally thought. Every new thing I learned I was like >> What's happening? >> Especially with this next tidbit of info. I found this video from an OnlyFans creator showing a DM that she got from Cameron Dallas essentially asking her if he could like manage her. >> Why is Cameron Dallas in my DMs? Hey Lila. Told my team to reach out. >> [music] >> Why are you looking for those Cameron Dallas? >> able to stitch together most of the message from when the green screen effect stopped working on the video. >> Hey Lila, told my team to reach out before, but wanted to make sure you got this info. My team saw your OF has leaks online, Google, etc. Also, it says active, but a couple of our messages haven't seen a response, which means fans are getting less responses and you're missing out on a lot of revenue. Are you open to hop on a call with me to see if my team and I can help increase your earnings, get rid of your leaks, and get you to level you deserve? >> He's just another celebrity trying to pimp out girls. >> Just after me being like, "Oh, maybe he's not like Russell Hartley." Dude, is there a Russell Hartley light, bro? Recruiting people in a TikTok agency and trying to manage OnlyFans models? Like, what the happens in a dude's head where he's like, "Hmm, seems like these girls are making a lot of money on OnlyFans." >> Give me that. >> Now, I don't know if this was a DM from him to like recruit her to Dallas Global Agency or if it was a DM to like get her to start using Fanfix or something else entirely, but regardless, definitely a weird DM to send to someone. >> My team saw your OF has leaks online. Like, what the What >> What kind of team do you have, Cameron? I'm picturing he has like a a team of elite gooners in a basement somewhere. Just searching for OF leaks all day. Now I know the meaning of his old song, "She Bad if she's not giving me some of her money." >> Fanfix and Dallas Global Agency, no matter how you put it, those are two ways to profit off of the work of other creators, which personally, as a content creator, that's the last thing I would ever want to do for a job. And I bet if you ask any content creator, they would share that same sentiment. Like who the starts making content to be like, one day I'll be a content creator manager. I'm not saying all influencer management companies are bad, but like I just think it's weird when creators start businesses that do that. I don't know. I I'm sorry. I I judge them when they do that. I'm sorry. But the next and final Cameron Dallas business that we are going to talk about is much more blatant and egregious with its exploitation of creators, in my opinion. So this is actually Cameron's most recent business and it's the main reason that I wanted to make this video. I saw the AI music and I was like, okay, that's weird. But then I saw this and I was like, okay, I got to make a video about it. Because this new company of his is the dumbest, lamest, most dystopian thing I've ever seen, I think, in my life. His new business is called Cloneable. Like Cloneable with with an extra I in it. And the A and I are are blue because, of course, it's a AI startup company. Let's read the homepage. Generate with real people who actually said yes. License your likeness, your face and your voice together. Anyone with something to promote, creators, sellers, brands, licenses it, payment verified, and you get paid per generation, every delivered render, even while you sleep. And now you're probably saying, "Whoa, this sounds like an episode of Black Mirror." And to that I say, I don't know what the that is. The only show I watch on Netflix is Chasing Cameron. But to better understand this business, let's take a look at a video that Cameron recently posted to his LinkedIn. So they first show the process of uploading your likeness and audibly consenting to use the service. >> Then Remi Records a spoken consent video. On the record, I consent to my AI likeness, face, and voice. >> But it's funny cuz like just like the Dallas Global Agency video, I don't think he watched it before uploading. Because the AI voiceover is calling this dude Remi? >> This is Remi. >> When I'm pretty sure that's pronounced Remy. >> Now Remi is live on the roster. >> I've seen Remi too. I think it's I think it's Remy. >> A brand casts Remi and generates a UGC ad. >> Cameron, can you quit lip syncing to your pretend music and do your own voiceover? Like jeez Louise, man. Nobody wants to work anymore. Anyways, the end of the video answers a question that I had since the first time I found out about this. How much money does a creator make when they sign away their likeness to an X Magcon stars AI startup company? And the answer? >> The finished video, cleared for use. And Remi gets paid a $10 license fee. Remi banks $7.50. >> $7.50? >> 75% every single generation. >> $7.50 to let someone use your face and voice to sell their shady drop-shipped product on their TikTok shop. $7.50, bro, that's probably not even enough money to buy the product that your AI simulacrum is promoting. >> Trade offer. I receive the right to use your unique, one-of-a-kind face and voice combination in order to slap your likeness onto a lifeless avatar whose sole purpose is to sell cheap LED phone chargers that will ultimately end up wrapped around the neck of a sea turtle. You receive about 750. >> And sure, it's 750 per video generated, but still, if those generated videos actually somehow end up converting to real sales, then that company is making money hand over fist off of your face and voice. Meanwhile, you wouldn't even be able to afford a bowl at Chipotle with what they pay you. This is insane. Let's watch a clip from Cameron Dallas's keynote speech at VidCon this year, where he talks about Cloneable. >> Cloneable is a way for creators to make subscription revenue or passive income. You license your face and your voice, and you allow brands to create UGC content with your likeness within a conform set of rules. >> I don't care if you signed up for this and you approve the video or not. Imagine how gross it would feel if you were like scrolling TikTok and you get an ad of yourself, like promoting some like weighted blanket or some but you never actually filmed that video yourself. Like this is so dystopian. What are we doing? This technology isn't supposed to exist, bro. This is weird as It all just seems pointless and counterintuitive for everybody involved, in my personal opinion. But you know, let's hear him out. Let's see why this would be a good idea. >> Creators already have so much on their plate. They're already making content for YouTube, Twitter, TikTok, etc. This is going to be a better way for for them to get that revenue model. >> Oh my god, shut the up, man. This is a load of horse okay? >> Yeah, creators are just so busy. There's there's too much stuff on their plate. >> Get the out of here with that man. In the grand scheme of jobs, do you know how easy it is to be a content creator? This is obviously coming from like a straight white guy's perspective. I've kind of had it easy my whole life, but this is the easiest job I've ever had and will ever have, okay? Sure, my job gets busy sometimes, but like that's that's what jobs are. >> [laughter] >> Jobs get busy. Like imagine going to Taco Bell and ordering like a Crunchwrap Supreme or something, and then the and the worker is like, "I don't know, man. I'm just so busy right now." It's [laughter] like that's not how businesses work, dude. It gets busy, but you still do the work. You figure it out. You don't go, "Uh, can I have this robot do it for me? Pretend to be me and sell this uh dildo or whatever the hell?" >> Also, if you're a creator, like Cameron Dallas was, for me being a creator >> you should know that your reputation and public image is like of utmost importance. So, why the would you sell >> that? By licensing your likeness so a brand can make some cheap-looking AI videos for their stupid business that they also clearly don't give a about. It makes the business and the creator look lazy and cheap at the same time. Like nobody is benefiting in this equation. Also, I just know for a fact he was waiting all day to drop the the term revenue model. >> get that revenue model. >> Like I'm just getting the vibe that Cameron is like larping as a businessman now. It's like that's what I'm picking up right now. It's like he heard the term revenue model and he was like, "Hey, I was a model before. I think I'm going to use that term." But in that video, the moderator kind of asked him to like clarify like the actual purpose of the business. But he doesn't really do a good job of that, either. >> creator would create an AI version of themselves who could have actually do these brand shoots so that they can continue creating what they want. >> So, how it works, it's it's really simple. You just how I did it for myself is you take a selfie, you record a 15-second clip of you talking. >> Like not what she asked. Okay, so the point is they license their likeness so they can just focus on making the videos that they want to make. >> you just take a selfie and then a little video and then that's pretty much it. >> Yeah, that's not what I asked. Revenue model. >> Oh, this guy knows his stuff. >> Cameron said that he is a creator on Clonable that you can license. And the website also says that they have 40 creators onboarded already. Wow. >> Pretty impressive. Licensed humans who actually said yes. >> The fact that this is like the main positive aspect of your business is so alarming. And what a stupid way to phrase it, dude. >> these people who actually said yes to this Can you believe how stupid they are? But all right, I'm excited to see the 40 creators who've already signed up for this. >> [music] >> Wow. Look at all of them. I mean, how do I even choose? This is like the Cheesecake [music] Factory menu, man. There's too many options. >> I'll try to say a good thing about this startup. It is nice that they're putting an emphasis on consent because a lot of AI companies aren't doing that. But that does not change my opinion. I still do not see the appeal of this at all. >> I think about it, this actually might explain all of his weird AI lip-sync music videos on his TikTok. Maybe he's posting all these to like better train the AI model for Clonable. But again, if that was the case, I don't think he would have to post them, right? >> Like we don't need to see them, man. >> He advertises Clonable 2 as like even if you aren't a creator, like even if you just have a good-looking face, you can license your image and start making money. >> And all I got to say is you got to be so far removed from the real world like when you see this business and think it's positive. Like how are we that people could genuinely be at a point where they're like, "Yeah, sure, you can use my face and voice for $7 to sell your protein powder. I can't afford dinner. I couldn't find any examples of a clonable video on the website, which is a little weird because that's their product that they're trying to sell. Like wouldn't you want to show examples on the website? That's like if you were to hire a landscaper and their website was just I cut grass so good, call me. But I was able to find some weird AI generated lip sync videos on that stupid After Hours Labs YouTube channel with four subscribers that I talked about earlier. I can't confirm that the clonable website was used to make these, but if the clonable videos look anything like these, woof. This is terrifying, dude. If I saw this uncanny valley looking freak talking about some TikTok Shop product in some random ass ad, the last thing I'm going to do is buy the product. I'm actually going to do deep research on their competitors and buy that product instead. Like this is genuinely horrific. >> Hi, Cameron Dallas here, famous YouTuber sensation. [music] Do you ever have dry lips? I know I do all the time. I love this lip balm so much that I use it on my real lips. Click the link below and buy this lip balm. I'm right behind you. >> Wait again. Cameron Dallas is a multi-millionaire. And he can do whatever he wants with his life, but it is a real bummer when someone who clearly once had a desire to create actual art is swept up in this lame-ass AI I listened to Cameron's album that he put out in 2020. And you know, it's not for me. But there were some songs in there that were like that weren't half bad. I could see people actually enjoying them. Like one of the songs had 4 million streams. Just like sad to me that someone who got popular by creating his own content and like really trying to make the art that he wanted to make. And then started a business to hopefully help content creators profit off of their content. And then started a management company to empower creators turns around and is like, "So here's my new business that trivializes content creators and completely strips them of their creativity, humanity, and autonomy." Look at this. >> [applause] >> They get $7. I don't know, man. In conclusion, I think Cameron Dallas can be a cautionary tale as to what happens when someone becomes was little bit too successful. You know what I mean? It's like when you see the inside of a billionaire's house and it's the ugliest you've ever seen. It's like they become so far removed from how things actually are that they're kind of able to just create their own warped perception of things. Cuz you genuinely have to be so out of touch with the creator economy if you genuinely think this cloneable thing is a good idea. Cuz it's just straight up not. It's weird. And he's also in a position financially where he doesn't really have to listen to negative feedback, which can be super dangerous. Like if someone was trying to make an actual living doing this and they were getting a ton of negative feedback, I'd like to think that most people would be like, "Oh damn, okay, maybe I am doing something wrong." Instead of just harvested your energy. My advice to Cameron, although he probably won't take it, cut it out with the AI music man. It is not doing you any favors, okay? Like we as human beings are never seeking out cheap imitation of the real thing. And you of all people should know that. >> [screaming] >> If you don't want to make your own music or content anymore, obviously that's fine. But maybe instead of having eight businesses, how about you just focus on like your one, like the one like agency business or something. And you try to make it as good as you possibly can, you know? Like I promise you that will feel so much better. If you do that, I think you're going to experience a whole new feeling of excitement and fulfillment. You're going to be so confused at this sensation, you'll be like, "Wait, what's happening?" Had to squeeze one more in there. Okay, I'm done talking. Hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, please press the like button. Cuz believe it or not, one like equals one business that I will start to compete with Mr. Dallas. Leave a comment. Let me know what you think about all this and uh hopefully Cameron isn't down there harvesting your energy. Also, don't forget to press the subscribe button cuz as soon as you subscribe, you become a valued citizen of Curtis Town. You didn't know? Curtis Town is the best place to live in the world and I'm the mayor. So you have to be nice to me. It is the law. Yeah, go check out my podcast and my gaming channel. I stream over there. It's a pretty good time. All right, that's it. I would stick around, but unfortunately, I got to go try that pizza cookie that Cameron was talking about. See you.
