I would like to do a quick video on this very popular Frigidaire dehumidifier. Uh there are tons of videos about reviews on this unit, but I couldn't find any that actually showed how to disassemble it in order to repair it. And like many of those uh consumer grade dehumidifiers, uh they're not built for the long run and they actually need repair. So, uh first showing the model. So, this is the exact model that we're looking at. And in order to disassemble it, you first need to um remove the uh the tray. Then there are two screws here that I've I have already removed. And then this piece actually goes down, but it's hard to get it down because it's actually all clipped in there. So, you have to somehow pry it to get it to disconnect from that. It's actually pretty uh Okay, once we at that point. Um there's screws all around. That you have to uh remove. Screws there on both sides. Then you find more screws there there. Three more screws. And finally you have two screws at the bottom. So, this big uh plastic piece is wrapped around. So, we have to uh uh get it uh to clear out and come out. But, for that we need to remove completely the cover. The other thing is that So, need to remove is that uh this part, otherwise it will not go through the hole. We can continue lifting the um the top part. With a tool. Here we have it. Once we have done that, we can unwrap this from both sides. And it comes out. In my case, I couldn't repair anything because uh I discovered that it was low on the refrigerant. So, there may be some leaks. And it's uh everyone tells me that it's not uh worth uh trying to fix it because you need a lot of um tools to be able to add some new refrigerant. And fixing the leaks is even more uh problematic. Otherwise, if you're lucky and the problem is something else, uh the kind of things that you could repair, for example, there's a a sensor here to check the temperature so that it stops if it gets too cold so that it doesn't freeze over. In my case, it was freezing over up to there, and the rest was uh warm. So, this means that there's not enough uh refrigerant and it only uh gets the bottom part cold. It doesn't touch the sensor, so it doesn't stop when it's too cold. And the only the bottom part is cold, too cold, and the upper part doesn't get any refrigerant, and it doesn't go anywhere. So, the this sensor can easily be replaced, as you can see. It's easy to to access. Uh other than that, there's uh a humidity sensor uh over here. And the control board is in this whole metal casing. So, those are the kind of things that you could have to repair. So, in my case, I have to send it to recycling because all the parts are good except the evaporator. And there's no refrigerant and nothing, so it's not worthwhile. My next dehumidifier will probably be a more semi-commercial type uh of unit and hopefully it will last uh longer. This one did last about 3 years and my previous one, it was about the same duration. I would really be happy with uh something that would last something like 12 years or more. Thanks. Hope it helps. I couldn't find anything about uh disassembling this unit and the way I discovered the trick is uh well, no one will know. I broke a few things, but now I know how to do it.
