Hello everyone. I hope you're all doing well. Thank you for coming. Please welcome the one and only Sam Denby of Have an Interesting Week Productions and Jetlag the Game. Let's bring our hands together. >> [applause] [applause] >> How are you doing today, Sam? Good. This is definitely the nicest room I feel like I've ever talked in. I feel like you'll probably get that a lot, but you know, It's gorgeous. anytime I normally talk it's in like a conference. It's like in a in a in like a convention center. Gotcha. Kind of the the polar opposite of this, but yeah. Well, as you can see by some of the hats, we've got some big Jetlag fans here. Right. >> And we have a very active society here at Oxford. >> I've heard. And we've been locked in a very intense debate over the proper formatting of our name and figured who better to ask than the founder of Jetlag himself. >> Uh-huh. So, should it be Jetlag Oxford or Jetlag The Oxford? >> I think The Oxford. The Oxford it is. >> Yeah. It doesn't really make full sense, but like, you know, I don't I don't care. That I I think that that that it it's it fits it better. I like it. Jetlag The Oxford it is. Take notes. Okay. So, moving into the the main prepared questions, September marks 11 years since you released your first video on Wendover Productions. And I don't think it's a stretch to say that you've come a very long way since then. Obviously, the video process is a lot more complex than it was now. I mean, you've got a whole team around you. It's pretty easy to spot the differences, and I'm sure you've talked about this at length, but what I'm curious about is what isn't different? What are you doing the same now that you were still doing in September of 2015? Well, I mean, the the the main channel, well, it's no I mean, in some ways it's no longer the main channel, but Wendover, you know, which our entire company is called, but also the main channel or the first channel, um I've just been making a video every 2 weeks on that for I guess close to 11 years now, which is the entirety of my adult life. Um so, in some ways like that that uh has just like become reality, where I'm just always every 2 weeks, um you know, writing about some new subject. And as you can imagine, there's only so many things to talk about, but um somehow find more. Um it's it's uh Wait, the question about what hasn't changed. Man, I just I keep thinking of all the things that have changed. Um I mean, I What also hasn't changed in some ways is I remember someone was I think Brian my my friend {slash} Real Engineering for anyone He's been on the season. He's been on the show, actually. So, you probably know Brian, right? Does anyone know Brian? He was just tweeting about that. I realize you probably know Brian if you watch the show. [laughter] Um like he was tweeting about the fact that uh that uh the educational space of YouTube has remained surprisingly like static. Um not necessarily in a bad way, but like you you see in like Hank Green and Vsauce and uh Veritasium and you know, they're they're making stuff in different ways, but they're still making stuff. So, actually, I guess my answer to round out to I didn't think I was going this way, but now now I'll make it seem like I am, but um is um the fact that I'm still making it is kind of surprising to me. Like the the fact that I'm still um a YouTuber and as part of my many jobs is in itself, I think, surprising to me because uh there were times when I thought this was going to be like a two or three-year job. Not necessarily because I didn't want it to be a longer-term thing, but just because like I I wouldn't believe that the economics would sustain it. Gotcha. You made a clip about uh not always knowing what you're going to do next for Wendover. That's actually one of the things I had written down. How do you come up with topics for it? I know some of them are personal event current events, some are personal interests. Yeah, honestly this is uh this is it's a good question. It's one that I get a lot but it's one that I never have a good answer to because it's just simply like I every single time it's like I can't there's no way I'm going to come up with a new one and then and then it's it's truly it's truly shower thoughts. It's truly like oh, here's something from the radio on the radio. I listen to a lot of NPR. NPR's awesome in the US. Um and uh you know, I'll hear something on the radio that has me thinking about something because the other thing I have no system. I wish I had a system. It would make my job a lot easier because it's truly like I will sometimes sit down at my desk because it's getting down to time where I have to decide and like try to force myself um to come up with something new to talk about and it just doesn't work that way. I wish it did because it means that off sometimes I put myself in a huge crunch uh to write something because I started late. Um but it doesn't. Um so often times it's like something's going on in the world that is worth explaining and even if it's not necessarily like um you know, the direct thing that's going on that's worth explaining. There's some background context worth explaining to it. Like for example, recently worth knowing about global oil logistics because that's been relevant, I guess. Yeah, I suppose it has. Uh as for Half as Interesting, uh if my understanding is correct, it started off as TWL on Wendover. Um so other than now having the freedom to make these short-form videos on stuff not on the Wikipedia Unusual Articles list, what made you decide to take TWL off of Wendover and turn it into its own thing? Well, yeah, so so TWL as you reference that that was that was our Basically there's this great Wikipedia list that is literally it's called Wikipedia unusual articles and it's just a list of links to articles and a lot of them are interesting. So sometime very very early in making videos on Wendover I was like, okay, what if we made a series where we just like made a video so we're covering each of these topics and it went really well so spun it off and a lot of them a lot of the motivation was actually to build a team because I wanted to grow more from just becoming like an independent YouTuber into starting to form like a bit of a company mostly because a lot of the reason was because there's a lot of parts of the video making process that I am not good at. For example, post-production, the entirety of it. I my brain just does not mesh with editing software. Especially motion graphic like Adobe After Effects and stuff like that. So from the very get-go that was like I just wanted to get rid of that responsibility because I hated it. That meant I had to hire people. To hire people I needed to have more revenue. To make get more revenue I need to make more videos and to make more videos I need to hire a team. So it kind of became a virtuous cycle or a vicious cycle depending on your view of it. So yeah and now we're what 560 videos later which is just on half as interesting which is insane. The fact that we've released at least a video a week. There was a period when we did 1.5 videos a week by doing one week with one one week with two and that is truly an over like you know, they're like decently involved to make. The fact that we've made 560 some of them is to me kind of inconceivable. Do you miss writing them? I know you still do a couple, but mostly Ben, Adam, and Amy, the outside correspondent turned Jet Lag guest star, have uh picked up most of those. I So, I I It was an interesting experiment in regards to this question recently. I until recently did not write a single Half as Interesting script for like three or four years. But, um the primary writers are Ben, who you know from Jet Lag probably, and Amy, who you might also know from Jet Lag. You'll get to know her a lot more on Jet Lag soon because she is the guest on our next season um uh that's coming out soon from the US. Um so, their primary responsibilities or not so their primary responsibilities are writing this channel. Um but both of them have gotten a lot better at their jobs and gotten a lot more responsibility, and they're starting to um you know, do more and more and more. Um you know, especially Amy is starting to She's like show running a lot a lot of our Nebula Originals, which basically meant that they don't have time to write Half as Interesting as much anymore. Uh which is a problem that I'm very happy with, but also I created. So, that means that I have subbed in and uh more often recently and written scripts. Um and I actually really like writing them. They're so much fun because you can be a little bit unhinged and um and it's a great like for me, you know, I I still write Wendover scripts, which is much more time intensive. You know, it's it's probably about half of my working time goes to writing those scripts um across a two-week cycle. So, they're very involved. Whereas, Half as Interesting, I'll write those in like a day, a day and a half, just learning something or just writing about something I already know. It's it feels so effortless in comparison. So, yeah, they're a lot of fun. As a bit of a follow-up, how does the writers' room for Half as Interesting work? Do you guys just like sit around a table and spitball ideas for a few hours or is it just kind of individual I want to do this, I want to do that independently? Um so, what I like about that compared to Wendover uh um, is that I don't have to come up with the topics usually. Um, because it's Ben and Adam's responsibility. They uh, we we get on calls every couple weeks and basically plan out future videos and they just come and give ideas and we get into arguments about why they will or will not work um, because I think we the way that works with like, you know, in some ways we don't have a boss. In some ways we do and the boss is the YouTube algorithm um, because if we don't listen to our boss, the algorithm, we don't make money and therefore we can't make videos anymore. So, we have to appease the algorithm and I think for us and many YouTubers what that means is we have about a 70% accurate view on how the algorithm works. We are mostly right. We are also often wrong um, because nobody truly knows. Even in fact, the people who run the algorithm at YouTube do not know because it uses um, you know, machine learning and stuff like that to sort of tweak is at least what they've explained to me. So, no one knows fully how the algorithm works and what will appease it and what will not. Um, so we go around and have arguments about do we think that this topic will appease the algorithm or not and um, and again because because we're mostly but almost certainly not even close to entirely right, uh, these will go in circles and circles until usually hopefully we reach some sort of consensus and then my worst nightmare is when it gets to the point where they're just like you got to decide cuz you're in charge and I don't like that uh, because then it's all down to me if I'm right or not. Um, but yeah, we do that and then it's pretty much an individual writing process with maybe some small notes at the end from me. >> Gotcha. Segwaying over to Jet Lag which I think is what drew a lot of people to your content. It's kind of staple formats, right? Tag, hide and seek. I played hide and seek a couple times, great fun. Uh could ask you a million questions about those seasons, but I'm a bit more curious about the other seasons. Stuff like Rail Rush, Hiding Game Showdown, Arctic Escape, now the Taiwan season. What is the process of coming up with those and designing the game look like compared to something that's pretty easy to recreate like Tag or Hide and Seek? Yeah, it's um a ton harder. Like it's really nice when we do a repeat format for us because we don't have to design a new game and designing a new game is very stressful and very time intensive because um it can go right and it can go wrong and I think it's truly the kind of thing where the the quality and effort of the work that we put into it leads to that success or failure, which sucks when you have to work hard to do good things. I hate that. Um Uh so Uh so actually uh We just got this question that in the small group thing that we did before this. So so I'll I'll I'll rehash some of that. To give you an idea of like the timeline, um we started designing the season that is releasing now, the Taiwan Rail Rush. We started designing that all the way back in August of 2025. Uh kind of preliminary I think actually uniquely that time like the first thing we decide on is we want to go to Taiwan. We were learning about it. It looked so cool. It was really cool. Um but it has a bit of a unique map of public transit and trains. Basically in that it's small, you know, it's not a big island and it's a very circular network because there's big old mountains in the middle. Um fun fact, tallest peak in Taiwan, higher than the tallest peak in Japan despite Yeah, you you know Mount Fuji, right? You don't know the tallest mountain in Taiwan or maybe you do. But anyone in the audience know it? Um wow, nobody. Okay. Um I forget its name, too, but it looks cool and I want to climb it. Um, but that's why there's no trains in the middle is like there's very little population in the middle. Um, and that network is really hard for us because that means it's it's essentially, you know, for our purposes kind of linear. Like you can more or less go left or, you know, go down, go up or, you know, in our context go left or right. Um, so doesn't have the kind of optionality that we normally um, look for um, because, you know, a decision of do we go that way or do we go that way is not that interesting. So, we had to sort of create a game that sort of um, took advantage of the restricted geography. Um, and I won't go into detail about the all the tiny intricacies of the game because they would go on forever and you can listen like podcast episodes about that. Um, but that took a lot of time to basically figure out a format that we thought could work there. Um, and like one of the things that we'll often notice in game design is that actually I think Ben just tweeted about this. We keep reinventing games that we realize don't work. For example, [snorts] like we we keep like you know how everything evolves into like I don't I don't know the exact thing here but like in evolution everything evolves into a crab or lobster. There's some sort of scientific principle thing about that. I don't know, I study history. Um, you look it up. Um, I think I'm somewhat right. Anyway, we keep designing games that are snake. Which looking back on snake, it was a format that we were sort of least happy with in retrospect we think that we there were some flaws with it. There were some stuff that we got wrong game design. But there's like for some reason there's like a reason why in the game design process we keep landing on similar formats that don't work. Cuz I think there's there's elements of it that sound interesting but aren't when you put them into practice. Um, and you know, we often sort of end up in similar sort of rabbit holes of ideas that we've discussed before that but for some reason we just don't think fully work. So that takes some time. We work our way through our rabbit holes and then we finally land on more or less the broad shape of a concept. Um and at a certain point, I mean we often call it as our we often refer to it as like our go no go time with a concept. Like usually we're discussing we have like short list of a couple concepts, two or three. And we usually have a front runner and we have to decide are we going to like do the sort of in-depth game design for this? Because there's actually from our perspective a huge difference between like the broad strokes game design where we're just talking about like a a a broad idea. Like, you know, we're going to play hide and seek but on a the border of a country and actually putting together the rule set with the right incentives and everything to make things balanced and make them work. Um so yeah, eventually we sometimes decide yes, we're going to go through this. Sometimes we decide no, we don't have enough confidence that, you know, we're going to come out the other end with something that's going to work. So we spend a little more time on the broad strokes stuff. But once we're sort of in the detailed game design, that's all about play testing. That's all about um coming up with like the you know, it's always like the first 95% of it is easy and the last 5% is the difficult bit. The last 5% of rules to make sure that players truly acting in their individual best interests will respond to what the other team, again, truly doing the best thing in their own interests um will they respond in a way that will make the overall game one function and two be entertaining. Um and I think that is the hardest problem to solve because we really believe in like we are not like we are players once we're on camera. We are not influencing things to make it work the way that we want it to work because, you know, I think as soon as the audience thinks that we're doing that, it becomes uninteresting. So, getting to that point takes a lot of time. We end up with, you know, it's often a series of compromises, you know, where we realize like in order to make it work in this way, we need to get rid of some principle that we thought would be really interesting. So, we go through that, we get to play testing, we just do that sort of like virtually using spreadsheets, Google um timetables, etc. Uh then we go film the thing, um and then it's post, and post is a huge part of the process, but not one that's honestly that interesting to talk about because it's uh it it's rather Well, it's not straightforward, but I think it's editing, it's motion graphics, it's sound, it's all that. Um yeah. So, a lot of folks, myself included, were really excited to see the former guest winners. Uh spoiler to those of you haven't watched all 16 and a half seasons of JetLagged, uh Toby, Michelle, and Brian back for Tag All-Stars. >> Mhm. Are there any plans to bring back the guys who didn't win their seasons, Joseph, Scotty, Tom Scott, for a second chance season or something along those lines? Um I would never say no, but I also would never say yes. I see. Uh so, >> [laughter] >> plausible deniability. I I cannot give exclusive spoilers. Look, if there weren't cameras here, I would tell y'all cuz I would trust y'all, but there are cameras. I can't I can't give I can't give everyone spoilers. Worth a try. Uh have you learned anything from filming and producing JetLagged that you've been able to apply to Wendover Half as Interesting? Mhm. Um I think the biggest one some one of the biggest category is by a nature of its scale, JetLagged has required us to get a lot better about our sort of like internal processes. And I know y'all all came here to talk hear me talk about is workflows. Right? [laughter] We love workflows. Um workflows and things like we love Notion, we love Slack, we love timekeeping software, all sorts of stuff like that. Um no, but but this is this is genuinely a big thing. We, you know, there's about 20 to 25 people who work on a given season of Jet Lag between all the different post-production people, um all the all our internal staff, everyone. So, that's a lot of people to coordinate, some of whom are effectively full-time. Well, some some are definitely full-time, some are close to full-time, and some are like, you know, a couple hours of, you know, composing work or something like that or graphic design or all that. So, coordinating that is a big uh challenge. Luckily, I don't have to deal with a lot of that myself because at least the post-production is uh coordinated by some of our great post-production supervisors. Um but what it has really shown is like I think the value of doing that, which I was pretty reluctant to because I don't like following rules and processes and workflows. Um but in the long run, it is uh did prove to be worthwhile. Also showed the value of um you know, forward planning. Uh you know, oftentimes I think um with the other channels and kind of with everything we're we're kind of very um bogged down in the moment and therefore it's hard to make time for sort of long-term planning. Um but this is a channel where it it's necessary. Um so, it's proven the value of that. So, in some ways, it's really just made us more of a company rather than just like a collection of creatives putting stuff together. Got you. Um so, that is the boring but truthful answer. Speaking of companies, we've all heard the Nebula ad read. Yes. Creator-built platform, post videos you can't otherwise post on YouTube because of the algorithm, it gives you better revenue. Yep. What I'm more curious about is what's not in the ad read, the kind of behind the scenes of how Nebula came to be, what do you think its future is. Speaking of which, this reminds me I need to upgrade my subscription to lifetime. I've been paying annual since Tag season 3, and my bank account hates me for it. Right. Um yeah, so the company came together. Um it was originally just sort of a talent management agency. Um my involvement started even before that when I I was one of the very first clients of um uh of Dave who went on to sort of found the company and form it um into a bigger thing. So, sort of talent management agency and what that basically meant was they book sponsorships, they did um a couple of other sort of assorted services for um creators. Kind of not like there's honestly a bunch of them, a bunch of bad ones, but um and eventually, I guess the difference between Nebula and a lot of other ones is that it grew much more so out of word of mouth, and at least originally it sort of specialized in the educational genre. Um so, it meant that like all the clients, or not all the clients, but a lot of the clients sort of knew each other knew each other socially. Um and I think what that meant was that we were much more prepared for sort of collective action. In this case, the collective action was we got together and thought it'd be cool to start our own streaming service um because um we there are certain elements of YouTube that uh are frustrating sometimes. And actually it's a a lot of it is there's like policy stuff, you know, I think a lot of people get frustrated about um YouTube creator policies and how that's sometimes a player applied unfairly and all that. That is undoubtedly frustrating. I think I take a slightly more sympathetic view to it than normal than most people just because it is so hard running the world's largest streaming service, YouTube. Like having policies that can moderate, you know, whatever millions of hours of content are uploaded daily. So, I think that they on balance do a pretty good job. So, it's less so like that side of things, but more so the ad-supported business model of video I think has some quite perverse incentives. Um really it's it's there's no way around the fact that it just is chasing clicks. It's like you know the the ad revenue comes in pretty immediately to when someone watches a video. So, the the incentives are just first and foremost get someone to click. The you know, YouTube I think has done some successful interventions about this through really rewarding watch time and retention and satisfaction and all that. But at the end of the day, the balance is skewed towards getting the click. And what that means is you get click bait, you get um optimized lengths of videos, you know, like 15 or 20 minutes is just what it turns out is the length of video that um the average viewer comes onto YouTube for. Um and therefore it tends to be most sort of effective for uh retention and watch time and all that. So I I think through all the systems of the algorithm has, it really incentivizes a certain type of video. Um you know, I I think it it sort of like kind of like the evolution discussion we had. It's like it it leads to an evolution towards a a fairly narrow set of types of video. Um and obviously there's there's plenty of diversity within that. I think that's a lot of what makes YouTube good. But what it does not incentivize strongly is investing in production quality. Because um people are not really like the difference maker for audiences these days is not kind of the fine-tuning of production quality when you're chasing clicks. It's you know, people will click on a video based on the concept. And people will generally stick around based on the concept. And to certain extent the execution of the concept, but more so it's the narrative execution of the concept more so than like the visual execution or the technical prowess of it. Um so what it means is like you don't tend to get a lot of very high production value stuff because of the business model. Um and it does not optimize for long-term satisfaction. So the idea with Nebula is that with a paywalled system you know, our incentives are we want to keep our subscribers around because they're paying, you know, 250 a month, 3 a month, or maybe they're a lifetime subscriber, but um we want to keep those people around because we're making revenue based on the length of time that we keep giving them stuff that they want to watch. So you know, I think there are some, you know, um you know, the company has now been around for what, 7 years or so? Um but I I I think there's also a pretty long road map ahead to sort of achieve the the full ambitions. Um but I think through like the originals that we do now, through the original content we do now, and through especially sort of our long-term ambitions with that, it's really around uh creating that style of slightly higher production value and budget content that will really keep people around. And you know, I think what we found is that the business model works, um but we do not want to take significant investment because we wanted to maintain control of the company. So that means that the growth is fairly incremental, and it has had, you know, a really good long-term growth trend that has allowed for more and more deskless of content, um but it is incremental growth that is accumulating through time, and I think has gotten to a very interesting place recently. Um but I think there's a long way that it will go. We've got one more question before we move on to the audience questions. Uh there's been a lot of discussion lately over private equity firms buying up major YouTube channels. There's That's who you mentioned earlier, Mentor Pilot, MatPat's Theory channels, Fern, etc. As a creator, how do you feel about this new trend and do the ethos of all this play a role in what you and the other creators on Nebula are trying to accomplish with the platform? >> Yeah. Um I thought you would ask this question, but I also didn't think through an answer. It's [laughter] it's a very interesting trend because I Okay, I think I have a collection of somewhat May- maybe I'll find a way to connect these thoughts. When I first heard about this business model, I guess I guess for for anyone who's not super familiar, basically um more and more YouTube channels are being purchased either outright or a stake in them are being purchased by private equity backed startups, basically. I mean they're sometimes they're directly private equity firms, sometimes it's companies that are creating a package of um package of channels uh and then these sort of startups are owned by private equity firms or invested in by private equity firms. Um when I first heard about this, I thought that there was no way this business model would survive long-term because how it was originally often often positioned to creators was as an exit strategy. Sell your YouTube channel, we will run it, and um and you can go right off into the sunset, have a lot of money, and whatever. That's a very compelling sell because there's not really Prior to this, people didn't really like value their YouTube channels as businesses. So, there wasn't really like a off-ramp. It was just like you did this until you stopped. And therefore, there like all of all of the value that you created just went up into thin air. So, like for most people, getting any money to stop was pretty compelling because I think especially there's a lot of YouTubers who work in a very unsustainable way because they perceive it as something that they're going to do for like 5 years of hustle. You know, I'm young, I'm going to hustle, I'm making good money now, then I'm going to stop, get work-life balance, move on to some other career, etc. So, the So, the very idea of getting any money was compelling. So, a lot of creators took those deals. Um and I believe there were a lot of failures um with some of these early investments, basically because um it is really finicky to run uh a YouTube channel. Um because usually it's a very like a creator has a very nuanced understanding, I think, of um And look, I'm biased in this. I think of what their audience wants. And you know, I know through through sort of building my team that uh you know, I have a I have I think a a very smart team of people working at my company. And it took that team a long time to really understand the nuances of what appealed to the audience and what didn't. Um you know, like it I you know, it took in some cases years, I think, to get to like a high hit rate with topic creation and writing and everything like that. So, to think that like an outside company can come in, immediately build, you know, sort of replace the team and have success, I didn't see any way in which that would work. In a lot of cases, it's not. So, from what I know more recently, what this has shifted to is um sales with some form of golden handcuffs. Um you know, for example, uh I'm I'm not super up to date, but I know one of the high-profile ones was the sale of Veritasium, one of the largest um educational channels on YouTube. Um how that worked was that uh the the founder of the channel uh stayed around in a limited capacity through time. I I he sort of worked fewer and fewer hours. Um and I believe he might not be that involved anymore. I don't know for sure, but um there was essentially it was a it was a structured off-ramp. Um and it actually seemed quite successful. Um but largely because I think that the I guess the the the company that ran that deal, Electrify, um from what I've seen has been one of the smarter ones in the space, um at least in terms of their success. Um and they built a team of people that were had pretty good credentials and were good writers and worked with Derek and um you know, put together a a genuine business. So, that's to say they were able to do it. I don't think that they are um the the the the channel numbers from don't necessarily like like the channel has changed basically, cuz I think it's a channel that in the past would do limited number of videos with really high view counts and it shifted one to the one that does more high frequency videos that might have lower view counts, but the frequency is probably what supports the business model. Um well, I'll say about I guess okay, the the industry at large and this is not necessarily commenting on Veritasium or Electrify is that what a lot of these firms I believe have access to is blue chip sponsors um on YouTube. Um basically traditional like the kind of sponsors the kind of advertisers that you would see on TV um or working through traditional advertising um agencies, they pay a significant amount more than the sponsors that you see more typically on YouTube, you know, like website builders or um you know Audible or Nebula or stuff like that. So, you know, because they're often doing awareness campaigns rather than conversion campaigns. Most of YouTube is conversion campaigns where they're tracking it based on click-through. They're tracking how many people click-through, how many people subscribe, and they're looking for direct return on investment. Blue chip sponsors, they're often doing awareness campaigns where you know, which is more more similar to what you see on TV. Where like they're just trying to get brand awareness about Tide or American Express or whatever. Um and I think in a lot of cases they're they're sort of evaluating campaigns at first based on TV numbers or based on print media. Um where as it's not as hard to get a million eyeballs onto something as you on YouTube as it is on broadcast. So, they come in and they see, "Wow, this is a lot cheaper." So, they'll pay a lot for these spots, but the the they'll pay a lot on YouTube terms for these spots, but a little from what they're used to. So, what that basically means is for a while they're able to access really high-value sponsorships through the connections of these private equity firms who get to marketing, you know, marketing agencies and stuff like that. Um and I think this can prop up the business model for a while, but eventually the numbers catch up. And the numbers, you know, the the the an eyeball on YouTube is not worth the same as an eyeball on TV. Like the just it does not convert the same for an advertiser. So, the numbers catch up and the um the the sponsors dry up cuz they're not seeing performance, and the business model fails. So, I think that that is something that it likely has been happening to a lot of these investments. Um especially as it's been a pretty weak ad market um uh on YouTube in recent years. Um, and therefore I don't see that business model having long-term sustainability. Um, in terms of the creators, I think this my last thought is on the creators. Um, I find it hard to well, I I I actually have not followed this that closely. So, I don't really know what public um, sentiments have been about the creators who have taken these deals. Um, I think that for creators who want to step off, like if you put themselves in their in their shoes, it's like I mean, I I've I get emails about these offers almost every single day. I know the numbers. They're really compelling. Like it can be not necessarily like retire now money, but like pretty life-changing amounts of money. You know, I think it's hard to ask a creator not to take that when it's an offer just on principle. Um, even if it does feel icky to sort of sell your creative work to private equity. Like I don't think anyone is excited about doing that. But, you know, I think it's the kind of thing where there's sort of a dollar there there you know, there's a there's a dollar price on most people's morality um, for these sort of things. So, I don't necessarily blame the creators as long as they're going about it in uh, honest way and making sure that, you know, they're rewarding their teams that have built um, the channels with them and making sure that they're setting their team up for long-term success and all that. Um, I have gotten quite a few of these offers. They have been compelling. Not something that I've been interested in because I actually like my job and uh, the key for me uh, has been actually making a sustainable job. One that like I can do sort of perpetually. Gotcha. Well, we'll open the floor to any questions. Don't be shy. Raise your hands. Uh, we'll go with the guy in the red, an iron president of Jetlag Oxford. Jetlag the Oxford, sorry. Can't believe I got it wrong. Yes, an iron. Stand up so we can see you. You talked about the idea generation stage of Jetlag and how life would adapt to the scale of the show in my entire country. Do you find there are many ideas that would you have to reject because they wouldn't work on this small season scale, but perhaps could work on a bigger smaller makes big scale? Um that's not something that has come up that much. Um Yeah, um normally Yeah, I I think normally cuz we're just more used to working at the larger scale. It's actually the inverse I think that has come up more often where, you know, like we've tried to come up with formats that could be more compatible with um you know, cuz we know that most people who are playing this game themselves, like they don't have time to, you know, do a Europe-wide game over 5 days. So, more often we've tried to come up with like what would be the next thing like hide and seek where we can play the same game that others could play and and you know, could sell a home game version. Um and that's been challenging. It's really just compatibility. Like how do you make a game that can work everywhere or at least almost everywhere. Um it's really challenging because everywhere works differently. Um and hide and seek, you know, it works pretty well, but it certainly has its like it's not the kind of game that you would expect a major board game manufacturer to basically make because it requires a little bit more, you know, DIY-ness. Um So, we've we've certainly tried to come up with that kind of thing more often. We've especially like we would love to make one that is actually even more easy to play out of the box, then even hide and seek. Um But it's not to say it's impossible, but but yeah, the the city scale has been traditionally more challenging. I've been told we unfortunately only have time for one more question. So I'm going to go with the guy that just raised his hand in the Seahawks shirt or sweater. Ah, the microphone. Good idea. I [snorts] have one very brief question, which is brief but very important. Sam, are we back? So back. [laughter] We are so back. Thank you. My question is about hats, and not just these wonderful hats you can buy at store.nebula.tv. Uh it's about all the many hats that you sort of theoretically wear between Nebula, Jetlag, HAI, Wendover, and even things exclusively on Nebula such as Scavenger um The Getaway, is it? Um how do you choose to invest your time essentially? What projects are the ones What about project will make you choose to actually go forward with it? You talked a bit about how the workflows work, but I'm more interested in the sort of creative ideation process as to how you choose what you do um alongside also juggling all of those things you already do, if that makes sense. Yeah. Uh I mean, the long-term trajectory of my job has been basically moving earlier and earlier sort of into the like, you know, we're sort of like I think video making is really just kind of manufacturing, but it's creative creative mass manufacturing, basically. And so if you think of it as an assembly line, like I've moved earlier like my average responsibility has moved earlier and earlier into that assembly line. Because at first I did everything, then I offloaded post-production, um and more recently like, you know, more so I'm not necessarily the one doing all the scripts or all the production phase. Um and pre-production uh you know, pre-production is the phase where you like kind of put together pieces for the project. Um that is the phase that I'm is really most of my job right now, because every other phase is it's been easy enough to find people who are very talented at doing that phase, um and you can just sort of hand off a project to people to sort of take it forward. So, that's meant that like you know, now there are other people who are right. There are even sometimes cases where there are other people who can do pre-production. You know, for example, like Ben and Adam do a lot of the more operational, you know, day-to-day tasks in pre-production and development for JetLag. So, that means like for JetLag my biggest point of involvement is that very earliest stage where we literally get into a Zoom call or sometimes we're in the same room, and we are just trying to come up with the core premise of what we're doing. I like to believe that this is one of the biggest difference-maker phases in a project, especially on an algorithmic video platform like YouTube where the concept really is everything. So, I believe it is probably both the place that the most value is gained or lost, and something that through like I've done it a lot. It's not a skill that a lot of people have a lot of experience with because most people have not made 800 or something different videos on YouTube through the years. So, like I have a lot of success or failure at coming up with concepts, seeing how they work, and learning from that. So, I tend to think it's the part of it that I've gained the most experience with and can provide the most value. Okay. I really wish we had time for more audience questions. Unfortunately, I've been told to wrap it up, but I have one more thing to ask. >> Right. How are you feeling, Sam? So jet lagged. He said the thing! Thank you very much. Thank you. [applause] >> [applause]
