What's going on people of the internet? Welcome back to another episode of the Waveform podcast. We're your hosts, I'm Marques and I'm Andrew. And on this episode we have a guest, one of my favorite creators. Yes, I'm very excited. It was a long time coming but we got him in the studio. He's not from the US so it really was long time coming but Tom Scott joins us. Um, he's a one of my favorite YouTubers and uh has over 5 million subscribers so you've probably heard of him at some point but it is kind of hard to describe his channel. It's very hard to describe. Some of his most recent video titles include I rode a giant mechanical elephant, you can too. Great video by the way. Really good video. Uh, how does Britain know what time it is? Just a great video to click. Um, he also has a video called this video has 53,699,710 views. And it does in fact have 53,699,710 views. So we talk about the wild variety of things that he does on his channel and sort of categorize it and talk about how he makes videos. We also talk about his process. And uh turns out he's also super competitive. He's hyper competitive and we found that out first hand on this episode. And it was it was a good time overall. So definitely buckle up, enjoy, it's a fun conversation and let's just jump right in. Hello. Tom Scott is joining us for Waveform this week. Welcome Tom. Thanks for joining. Thanks for having me on. We appreciate it. We were just talking for a second about the temperature yesterday and you said it was 36 degrees. It it was. And I was like, where were you? Um, it but that was Celsius and I now have to calibrate exactly what that is. High 90s. I'm I'm not built for that at all yesterday. So uh so you're from from Europe. Yes. Where would you say you're from right now? Cuz we were talking about that too. Uh, I am traveling so much at the minute that I am not entirely sure. It is lovely to finally be out on the road and like I'm bringing packs of lateral flow tests with me and I'm being really careful where I go. It feels strange to me to be without masks in a podcast studio. I know we we're tested, we we check all that, but after 2 plus years of this and being so careful, it's it's lovely to be back out. I I seem to be way more careful than a lot of people are though cuz all over Europe, all over the bits of the US I've seen here, like there's there's a lot of indoor dining There's levels to it. There's for sure levels to it. Like I'll go somewhere where everyone is wearing a mask and I'll go somewhere in the same town where no one is wearing a mask. It's it's a it's a huge variety here. But I I wanted to talk to you for a long time. I I've watched your videos for a long time. Well, likewise. Well, well, I mean we'll save the mutual admiration society for a while, but Um my favorite question to ask fellow creators is how do you explain what you do to people who don't know? So, I mean it depends if if I know you did a video on this like if you're in the back of back of the cab and someone asks what you do. I mean the the easy out the easy out is I I run a video production company, which is what I do. Um other than that, I am basically a TV presenter from the '90s at this point. Like I I grew up watching the four channels that were available and I seem to to infuse a lot of that into what I do cuz I think I I grew up in the age of linear television, in the age of of content that unless you specifically video recorded something and saved it, you would never get to see it again. And there's still quite a lot of sensibility of that in my head. And I sometimes find a disconnect between myself and is it too patronizing to say the kids? The kids the kids who grew up with the internet from birth, with YouTube from birth now, living in a world where almost any media you want is available on demand. Either through someone illegally uploading it to YouTube cuz it's 20 years old, it's not in Content ID, to any streaming service, to anything like that, to uh what I assume is still piracy going on. You know, I I remember the days of torrent trackers and all that. I assume they're still going, but we now have a world where seems to be streaming for most stuff. Yeah. So, you feel like a sort of like a host on your channel, but you I mean, your videos, if I were to just open up your channel right now and just start scrolling through video titles, it's all over the map. Like, there's I have a I make it I have a theme, it's tech videos. So, like, you know, tech products come out. I can explain that to people. I I review and talk about the newest technology. It's like, "Okay, that's a sort of a concise thing." If I were to try to explain your channel to someone who hasn't seen it, I might start with What was the last video about? It was I don't remember. Yes, it is. THIS IS THE POINT. LIKE, I will occasionally get someone asking me about a specific thing I've done in the past. I've got no memory. No clue. Yeah. Not at all. What what I would like to run is the kind of 1990s fact and factual entertainment magazine show would would be the term in the UK, which is in the same manner that you would you would look through a magazine and there is an article on this and article on that and article and maybe you're not interested in everything, but you want you know the writing that goes into You know you know the the style. Most of it is is going to be something you're interested in. And because that was appointment to view television, then you would tune in for the show. Um I think that the the example that sticks in my head is the BBC and then a lot of other broadcasters had a show called Coast for a while in the mid-2000s, I want to say, which was just it was stories about the coast of Britain. And one of them in each episode might be about biology, which is is not generally something that I'm okay with. It's some fish, I'm not interested. And then it might be, "Okay, here's here's a a of archaeology that's this old infrastructure thing." like "Oh, brilliant, that's what I'm interested in." Right. But I would watch the thing about the fish because it was in the show and I knew that the show was going to be good and I like that brand. I feel like that's what I'm trying to imitate. Ideally, I would be putting out half hour shows that cover three or four things but the medium has changed. That's not what YouTube wants. That's not what the the entire medium is set up for and you have to adjust your content to fit the medium. That's not a complaint, it's just a fact. So, in a world where you have to clickbait every title and thumbnail what I'm doing is is taking the sections from what would be that magazine show Okay. and now now I can't do the thing about the fish. I mean, I still can but if I do, fewer people will watch it. They're going to channel flip immediately to something else to use the the '90s analogy. And I guess I I'm not saying that it was better then because it's really easy to get nostalgic for for things that were that were obviously worse. You know, it is it is obviously a much better thing that we have access to so much more variety and so much more variety, so many more perspectives, so much more information. More information is is always a good thing. Yeah. Uh don't hold me to that. I'll find a counter example to that at some point. a fair statement. More information is generally a good thing. Yeah, yeah. Um but at the same time it's really easy to get in that that kind of idea of I can only do this now. That happened to me during during the pandemic. I I now do four to five-minute videos Mhm. generally about interesting things in the world. Okay, that's I think key cuz I I think when I see your channel, I would I would argue you could do the video about fish and I would watch it because I I did Because I know it's a Tom Scott video. to title it it's like a spaceship for sharks. Yes, and I will watch that because I know somehow Tom Scott is going to tie this together and make this actually work. I talked about the infrastructure. It was filmed at an aquarium. Mhm. But I made the analogy to a spaceship and to life support systems because you are taking these creatures that are way outside their natural habitat, putting them in a thing with a wall on and maintaining a higher pressure environment that if it breaks, they'll die. That's a spaceship. a spaceship. Um but how do you sell that to an audience where if you say this is about fish, they're going to click on any of the other dozen things that are in there. Right. I think that might be one of the things that weirdly TikTok sort of solves and short sort of solves because you just get served things. And as long as you can make that argument in the first three, four seconds, you don't need to click You need to clickbait the start of your video. That's a different type of bait. But that's a different type of bait. Yeah. I mean TikTok terrifies me, you know? Oh, we can talk about TikTok all day. Do you So do you Do you make TikToks at all cuz No, I responded I responded to shorts by starting a new channel where everything's four times as long and looks like a really '90s TV show. So I No, I didn't because I It's I feel weird talking this much by the way. I'm going to say this that I've I've learned I've realized that's what I'm here for. Like I'm the guest on this and I keep I am talking too much. Should I I should be asking questions. This is not my job here. This is No, we love this. This is I I like talking to creators because I I always find that we have a lot in common and we always have different parts where we might diverge on either how we approach something or how we create. Probably my my second favorite question to ask is like how do you make a video? Which is probably even more interesting for you because there's such a variety of topics. You mentioned it's interesting things or or interesting topics that you care about. Right? So that might be anything. There's a lot of By the way, there's a lot of It's mostly infrastructure. So there is a wonderful channel by a friend of mine called Evan who runs a channel called Rare Earth. Uh he's been a guest on my channel before. Yeah. He is interested in people. So he makes videos about people. So, he makes videos about people and humanity and the things that we do to each other quite he takes it takes some very dark places. Um whereas I seem to be interested in things. And that's that's how my brain works. I'm sure someone could do a huge amount of of psychoanalysis on that to to find out but ultimately people make I think sustainable channels on whatever medium that is make videos about the things they're interested in. Absolutely. If you have a popular channel but it's something you're not interested in, I suspect it wouldn't survive that long. Yep. It's that's how that's how burnout happens. It's also interesting though because like when we talk about or when people talk about channels being successful, they say find a niche. Your niche is things which is like the least niche thing possible. didn't used to be. It used to be that the channel had my name on it. Mhm. And it was just going to be about whatever I'm interested in. And there was all sorts of stuff there was game show stuff and there was all sorts of things and that is not how YouTube works in the 20s. Mhm. Which is a bit frustrating again magazine show but and I feel like again shorts is a thing where you get to experiment more with that because as terrifying as it is, it pulls your audience and the wider audience in the first few minutes, finds the niche for that video and then goes from there. Yeah. And what are your experiences with it? This is this is what I'm asking creators that I meet. Yeah. who hasn't gone into that world because it feels like a whole lot of effort I don't have brain space for to learn a new medium. Right, okay. It is fascinating. So, I have a bunch of thoughts on it. And to sort of tie it to what you mentioned, my channel's about tech so I do feel an obligation with whatever video I make next to have some sort of tech in it. We just talked about how I'm I'm reviewing a new car for Top Gear. There's usually some sort of tech in every possible thing, whether it's an electric car or a high-tech car or a hybrid powertrain. And this one's a Maybach, and I'm thinking this might be the least tech car. How do I bring tech in this to find a way for me to be the one talking about it? Um but with short-form content, like you said, each individual video gets its own exposure to whatever. So, people aren't necessarily subscribing to a Shorts channel or subscribing to that Shorts experience, but they're just scrolling through their feed and it gets served to them. And so, I found while I do make an effort to make tech-related Shorts, I have found uh you can experiment way more and often find success if you make a good native video on something you really care about, it will find that audience. Um that being said, the most viewed piece of content we've ever made was a flip phone. It was just the LG Wing, just flipping it open. Yep. 40 million views on TikTok, and I just I guess How long's that video? It's like 30 seconds, not even. Not even. We shot it in probably 5 minutes. That's But I think that's kind of interesting. There are There are things we find really interesting sometimes where the interesting thing is only about a minute long. I mean, like sometimes it's not worth a full video. That's where we found that to be really interesting. Yeah, I I reject video ideas for that reason. It's like This may be 30 seconds, and then I'm just realizing that that's probably probably the way I'm doing it. But then I put the effort in, and I hate to sound mercenary about this, there is not much return there other than being able to promote the channels where you make money. I hate to have the the whole mercenary attitude to that. There is not a sustainable monetization option for Shorts yet. There wasn't There wasn't for YouTube in the early days, either. Um but if you're only producing 10, 20 seconds of content, then you are not going to get as much back from that, anyway. I think someone told us most TikTokers want to become YouTubers Yeah, it's the same with Vine. It was exactly the same with Vine. Yes, look at some of the biggest YouTubers right now, they were Vine artists cuz there is no monetization there. And like I'd say we we spend the time making shorts and all that, but exactly like you said, that is for it because its algorithm is so good to hit an audience that we're hoping some of that brings it back to where we're creating content. Yeah, I I created a separate Shorts channel and I get asked a lot of times why I created a separate channel for it because honestly the better ecosystem decision probably would be to do occasional shorts on the main channel because what I've always found is those will just be super low effort, super short time, they will find an audience and just bring in new subscribers to the thing that actually makes the money. Yeah. Uh so if I put them in a separate silo on a Shorts channel, they're just going to be in a separate silo on somewhere that doesn't make money. Um so whether or not that was a good business decision will we have yet to see cuz I'm still experimenting with Shorts, but um you know, I've done one short on the main channel and it was an iPhone a green iPhone unboxing. Right. Like how long could you possibly talk about a new phone color, right? It's green. Here it is. So yeah, 12 seconds, there it is. Yeah. Um but that's you know, my experiments with with Shorts are not over. I'm very I'm very curious about the future of that. I want I want to talk about the Maybach that you've got at the moment just because how are you making that a technology video if that's what you're going to do? Cuz I would absolutely anytime I'm I'm looking at car reviews anything like that, the thing that I actually want to know as someone who doesn't really care that much about engines and things like that is not um it's not how fast does it go, it's not how how comfortable the ride is, it's is this entertainment system going to annoy me for every minute I'm in this car? Yeah, I think the answer is yes for most of that. Is the adaptive cruise control going to actually work or am I going to have to guide it along as Cuz brakes too late all the time? Yeah. And it doesn't feel like that's what most reviewers are going for, but then my my concerns about cars are probably not those that that most of the public have. I love this this question. So, first of all, the the Maybach is for uh Top Gear, which I write a column for. So, I won't even be making a video about it. I'm just going to be writing a column for them. Nice. But, I have made a bunch of car videos, and that is always a question of like how does my car perspective fit into the world of car videos? And I watch a lot of car videos, and a lot of them are just like you described. Driving dynamics, handling, power, acceleration. We're going to do a drag test now. Now we're going to do a stopping test. Now we're going to do a cornering test. I'm going to be doing 55 down a motorway. I don't Like the actual ownership experience is very different. So, for a lot of these high-tech cars, and maybe I'm a little guilty cuz I've done a little bit of like the the supercar world, and that's what people really care about in that world. But, when you're buying something, I try to put it in your hands through the camera. I try to actually let you sort of own it, hold it, use it. And for a car, it's driving around on regular streets. It's going grocery shopping. It's dropping people off. It's uh carpool. It's a road trip. And that's what I want to be able to give people for like regular cars. Yeah, you did the EV road trip, didn't you? We did the EV road trip. Just like what is it like to charge an electric vehicle for a 1,000 mi trip versus a gas car? That's just When your country doesn't have a national standard charging connector. It's really interesting to actually go through that process and figure that out. So, yeah, for the Maybach, for something like that, it's like, all right, I don't know. For people who are going to actually buy this $190,000 Mercedes in disguise, what do they actually care about when they're going to buy it? For some of them, it is the infotainment system. I will talk about that. For some of them, it is what's it like in the backseat? Mhm. And I'll talk about that. Uh but that's a unique challenge for a product reviewer is talking to the exact person who wants to buy that thing. Right. Figuring out who it is before you even talk about the product. And everyone has different requirements. Yeah, every product has different requirements. Yeah. Like I'll review a phone and it's like I if I review the iPhone, that's one audience. If I review the ROG Phone 6, I could talk about it the same way as the iPhone, but it's it's going to be lost on the people who actually want to buy the ROG Phone 6. So, you have to sort of adapt to the language a little bit. sure there's many of those people. There's Well, that's exactly right. It's a very small subset of those people and they're over here. So, they care about performance and gaming and and clock speeds and things like that, frames per second. But, uh yeah, that is a challenge of talking about products, I think. I think we found that to be pretty consistent. Especially when it's a product kind of like that is in our range cuz it's technology, but also kind of isn't in our range and it's hard to see a lot of comments being like st- stay away from cars. Stick to this. But it Well, that's the other thing. But like I love hearing you say like you're watching a video like that because you are interested in a car that you're going to drive, but you're not interested in it from a mechanical standpoint or something. The first thing I do when I get into a rental car is right, how do I plug my phone in here? How do I get CarPlay working? Oh god, how does this cruise control system work? Why can I only test this when I'm going at speed? How I shouldn't have to learn a user interface Exactly. at 50 miles an hour. Yeah. Um you know, I would argue there should be a standard on that, but there isn't. Um as someone who very much likes a car that can just basically drive itself on on motorways, Mhm. finding that every model performs differently, everyone will hold slightly different position in the lane, have a slightly different completely different interface to deal with. Uh it's I don't think a review would help with that. You just have to find ones. No, this is what makes me want to start a car channel. This is what makes me want to start like I I review phones kind of in this uber detailed way where it's like I know about using a smartphone because I've tested and reviewed and used Can I say thousands? It's been hundreds at least. Hundreds, probably thousands. It might be thousands of phones. Um and now as I slowly grow my fleet of cars that I've tested, I'm developing the same things. I'm like, "Wow, this one sort of bounces back and forth between the lane lines when I'm in cruise control. Oh, this one just sort of holds on the left side and will sort of wiggle when I pass a car." Like, that's kind of weird. Like, these things you notice that you don't really put in the car video because a car video on YouTube is supposed to be one thing. And when you vary from that, they go, "You don't know cars. You're not doing a good car video." So, I want to make I want to Yeah, that's that's Yeah, no. You want You want to car video for the commuter. Yeah. For Yeah, you're going to be driving X miles in this every day, back and forth. What's that like? Here's what it's really like. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. That's a free idea for someone if you're not taking it. I love it. Let's take a quick break and we'll come back and we'll talk more YouTube stuff. I actually I actually have a question I can You want to start with that? on on creation stuff. Hit me. One of the questions I have for people who make long form like this Mhm. is your shooting ratio is the wrong term for podcast, I guess, but the the time you record versus the amount you publish. Right. So, I I used to a show called Citation Needed with some friends, which was just just sitting around with friends. Again, I used to do very different things and it was possible to do that. it, yeah. Um and that found an audience, but these days if you're launching something like that, you'd have to fit the medium, point being, we shot probably about two to three times Mhm. what went into the show. Yeah. We dropped any slow bits. We We kept the funny bits. We looked far better than we were because as as anyone who attended the live shows will know, we looked far better than we were because following on from BBC radio comedy and everything like that, you record so much and you then you put in a shout. Trim, trim. Yep. What's your approach to doing that? So, immediately when you brought that up, I I I got this little like scale in my head um of the type of content and where it would fall on the scale. If If we go from a scale of 1 to 10, one being we use everything we shoot, 10 being we trim most of what we shoot. Um a one is the podcast, right? It's uh especially because with the podcast, we'll also trim clips out and those will also be published. So, it's like a great ratio. Somewhere in in like the three range is the bread-and-butter smartphone videos. I write them. I know them super well. I I every single shot where we'll go into the shot and we'll start shooting something. I'm like, "Eh, we're not going to use this. Like, we don't need to shoot this." And we know very quickly what to shoot and what not to shoot. We get higher towards like the sixes with car videos because we'll shoot just a ton of rolling shots. Like, we just got a ton of shots of the car it's driving. Here, let's get another shot of it driving. I think I remember reading that The Grand Tour has something like a 2,000 to one shooting ratio or something. Like, they got like seven cameras rolling all the time. I mean, when I'm talking about that for podcast, I'm not counting like the three cameras we've got here as like Sure, sure, sure. Just Just in terms of of time. Of time. Right, exactly. Yeah, I I I think we shoot a lot of time for the for the car stuff and those end up being trimmed a lot. And then I actually see on the furthest end of the spectrum at like a nine is when we shot Retro Tech, which was a uh YouTube original series. Oh, cuz that was TV style. That was exactly that style. was with a production company with a TV style producer. Yeah. So, we we shot for six weeks for six episodes. Wow. So, there was quite a bit of things that we either didn't use at all or used 90 seconds out of 3 hours or or people flew in and we ended up, you know, making a bonus content or whatever. There's a lot of that. So, that's sort of the scale in my head. I think I aim for like a three on a good day. I don't know about What is your What is your typical ratio? Uh on the on the channel that's just got my name on it. Yeah. Um probably about a three on that scale, I'd say, because there's a lot of cut down interviews. And those obviously you're taking 20 minutes and cutting it down to to two. But I'm going in with a script where I've got hopefully every word written in advance. You fully script everything. Yeah. We have asked this question because Yeah. Ho- hopefully there should be no surprises. I go in and there's uh Destin who runs Smarter Every Day who has the exact opposite approach. As far as I can tell, he goes in, gets the interview, goes round, does the and then packages it up afterwards, tells the story afterwards. And that's a a lovely approach and it does not fit with the way my brain works. different skill. Um I I don't like cutting down anything. I I I don't like looking at my own incompetence. So like, cool, get that recorded, get that done, get the interview, get the B-roll, get my piece to camera, Mhm. tick tick tick, job done. I always like the ones where I I break away from that script. Um there's one in production right now with um France where yeah, act two and three, the script just says, "See what happens." Yeah. But that's always a nightmare for my editor. Right. the cost goes from research into production. So that's that's the the I can't call it the main channel anymore cuz I'm not sure it is. It's fine. Uh the channel with my name on it. It's funny you said it goes the cost goes from research to production, but also the time Yeah. goes from research to production. So as if as I've been the editor for the last 10 years, it's like I prefer to plan everything and know exactly what we're going to shoot. But then there are some things where like, I'm just going to need someone to explain this to me and then I'll cut it down. And then there's some things where it's like, let's just try it and see what happens. And I always feel like those you feel pressure to get something out of it, otherwise it's a waste of time. Right. Uh those are interesting. But uh I think you were to ask about Well, I was scripting, right? I yeah, scripting like your videos are insanely impressive with the scripting and to how you fit it with I think a This this is luck that I have by by no design of my own. I write in roughly the same way I talk. I can write in my own voice. Mhm. So That's a skill. What I'm doing is just researching. Like I will have 50 tabs open, long documents open, skim skim, note note note. And I just start writing. I put paragraphs together, move things around, and I've got a script. Um that's That I I can't say that's all there is to it. Like that's that's the one the one skill I've got. The one actual skill is taking a thousand pages of content and turning them into four paragraphs that tell a story. Or occasion like half an hour that tells a story. That's That's the one thing I can do. And then over on on the the plus channel, which increasingly that sounds like it's a second channel and it's becoming the main one. But in that case, that is unscripted to the extent that sometimes I don't really know what I'm going into. I know what the top line is. Mhm. Um I I know I'm going to a farm and it's going to be something about herding sheep. And literally that's all I knew going into that video. And then I spend a morning learning sheep herding. And learning with someone who is who's really good at it and who can show off their skill and I can I can show off someone else's talent or learn a thing. That's really been quite uh a different experience for me and a really rewarding experience for me. Um but I'm aware that the only reason that exists, the only reason that that basically I have become And this reference will not land for anyone in this room. The only reason I've basically become a a Blue Peter presenter is that I have the old channel, which means that people are following me as a person, which is something I'm generally uncomfortable with. Um and it's the reason that the the channel is about working with others and learning from others, generally, as opposed to it being about me. You'll notice that I have evaded almost all the questions about history and workflow by changing it to being about you or about something else, which is what I always do. I think I always I I tend to divide YouTubers into like type A, type B, and so many different ways. I think we were just touching on one, which is like scripted or unscripted. And in tech, most of us are very scripted, and I think most of us want to try to also do unscripted stuff. So, we'll do like unboxing stuff. the podcast. conversations, podcasts about tech. And it's Yeah, it's a different skill, and it's it's kind of fun to like I I know I know from university radio many, many years ago that I'm bad at solo unscripted. Just I'm bad at it. Fine if I've got some people to bounce off, but solo unscripted is not a thing I can do. It's a it's a Could I spend years building that skill up as well? Yeah, I could, but anything I do is now very public, and you you can't launch a thing in public is Right. Right, right. I mean, you you can as long as no one's really watching. Right. Here's another type A, type B. Uses a teleprompter, doesn't use a teleprompter. Yeah, 100% prompter. You do? Yeah, of course. Yeah, I I couldn't tell. Really? Like you're good at reading from a teleprompter. some of the situations you're in make it very Like when you're walking around, I think the last video I did was on a mechanical elevator. let's say it's 100% scripted. Okay, that's uh that's a a better way of putting it, but I don't enjoy learning lines. Like you've you've written it all, so you know it very well, but then as far as like actually reading from, let's say, a teleprompter on the lens, you can sort of look away and make it feel natural cuz you know Because I write like I speak. So, a lot of times that's not acting as a prompter, it's acting as a guide. a guide. It's my native language. I can move a few words around and know it'll still work. Yep. I can recover occasionally from going off on a tangent, coming back, speeding up my voice a little bit so I can get in and all right, yeah, I'm back with the words now. Yeah. Uh but the reason that I I have to do that is if I get a fact wrong everyone will call me on it. And they'll be a note on my another note on my corrections page. Like once I was filming many years ago at the top of a wind turbine and I accidentally said thousands instead of hundreds or something like that the other way around. It's an obvious error. There's nothing I can do about it. Nowadays, I could probably have an AI clone of my voice or cut away and dub over. I've had to do that before. I forget what the line was. I just said it completely wrong on location. Uh I just just indefensible blunder. Just got the words completely wrong. But I was just kind of standing on a road somewhere. So I went out to a similar road with a similar thing. Put the microphone in the same position. Had an earpiece just repeating the line over to me. To match it. Dubbed the words in and it sounded close enough. Yeah. There is a video and I won't say which one it is cuz cuz I don't want people to go looking for it. Um there is a video where I consistently mispronounced a word like four or five times. I just um I just got two of the syllables the wrong way around. Mhm. No one called me on it at the time. I don't think anyone noticed it at the time cuz it's it's a fairly obscure word. Um what we did is and the audio editor just I I have so much I so much respect for them because what we did is I went to a room about the same size. I played the line back. I just I ADR'd it. You know, I just said the line repeatedly correctly and he just cross-faded between the two at the right moments and you cannot tell. It Uh the lip movements don't actually quite match if you know what you're looking for. Yeah. But no one's going to spot that. Nobody's looking for get away with a lot by just quietly cutting away. Yeah. I think that's something Sorry, Karen. I was going to say we have that in common where like we're talking about things, and if you get a fact wrong, everyone likes to point out that the the fact about the thing was wrong. Like it's with tech that's like notorious. Like if you get a fact wrong in tech Um so I do write 95% of what I'm saying. And so what I'll do, I've said this before, I have all of my bullets and my paragraphs on my phone, and my phone is like in my lap or something on a table next to me. And so I'll pick it up, get the facts that I need to get right, put it down, and deliver it. So I can kind of veer off and do a tangent and whatever, and hopefully none of those facts are wrong. But as long as I hit those things, I'm still fine. But I've never been good at like actually like reading and then talking and then seeing that the line's moving. I I've I'm just terrible at that. I look like I'm staring into a camera, which is not Uh so Preach, shout out to you for doing that super well. Yeah. I think only the people who are making the things really realize that that how how edited these things we're watching are. I feel like every time I watch something, I'm watching it in one half of my brain for the entertainment value, and then the other half of my brain for how I think they made it. That's a cut. That's a cut. That's a cut. Yeah. That was filmed at a completely different time. What was Um on the plane, I watched um Hobbs and Shaw, the Fast and Furious spin-off. Um because I would like to turn my brain off for 2 hours of this plane journey. There is a scene at the power plant, which is like the which I thought was the ending of the movie, and then it just keeps going. Like it's just a it's just a set piece in the middle. And there's one point where they cut to the characters, Uh-huh. and they've got bright sunlight on them and shadows, which are present in none of the other scenes. Not even close. It's a cloudy day for everything apart from three cuts. Why? What happened there? Yeah. That is a what? Seven, eight, nine figure movie budget. You couldn't have reshot that. Somebody somewhere. It's it's a curse of being a like video creator. It's like I went to film school too too and just like watching movies that those little continuity mistakes here and there are just like wait a minute and my wife hates when I scroll back and like that was wrong. Did you catch that? You see that? You cut away from that character and then cut back just as they finish that line. So that was done after you because some exact went I don't understand what's going on here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now that's that's a that's a classic one. What you find I'm interested in how you edit a lot of your stuff because a lot of it seems one take. Are there multiple multiple I think the one I think of the most is the the really bad roadway with the music in California. Yes. Oh no that cuz obviously I am driving. I cannot use any sort of prompter. Uh No but I've got like five cameras and then and then I did up and backs at the same speed enough times with enough GoPros. I knew going in that that was going to be a nightmare. Yeah. So I just is it cheating? I don't know. It feels like cheating. I would say if you asked me I would have said you scripted that perfectly to get to it, hit it, turn back around cuz you can see you making the U-turns, going back around. I honestly would have thought that was one take. So kudos to editing and scripting and everything on that video. I think that was me editing as well. I think that was me. Very well done. sure. Apologies to to apologies to the team if that wasn't me but uh All right. I want to ask you a question about your your workflow and how you make videos just directly. You have such a variety of topics. Do you start with here's a thing I like, I'm going to make a video or do you go backwards which is what I've learned a lot of YouTubers do, start with a title and a thumbnail and go that's a video I want to make and then go back and decide how to create that video. Cuz I've done both at this point. I find it more challenging sometimes to do one than the other, but it depends on the topic. For the regular videos, for the ones I'm known for, Yeah. it's from the subject and out. And so you make the whole video And then I have to come up with a damn title. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Which is which is deeply frustrating. Again, spaceship for sharks. Yeah. The only reason that I was able to do that video is I came up with the title. Which again really annoys me. Mhm. But that was the thing that made made me go, "Okay, yeah. This works." Yeah. And I have had to not do videos in the past because I'm like, "There is there is no way to get people to click on this. It's it's really interesting. If if they if they watch it, it'd be great. But I know they're not going to. Again, YouTube versus magazine shows from the '90s. However, for longer form stuff, um particularly on on the plus channel, then yeah, that can that can be driven by the title. Okay. The one a while back on uh copyright from many years ago, like YouTube's copyright system isn't broken, the world's is. Oh, that's a title. That is. I remember that going from the title and going, "Well, yeah, that's the thesis I want to make." All right, here we go. Time to dive in. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, there's some videos sometimes where I'm like, I think that you I think tech YouTube deserves a video with this title because this is the point that needs to be made. Now let me reverse engineer my way of arriving to that point cuz I like to structure videos in a way that sort of land somewhere where you can get to the title or get to the thesis. Um I'll tell I'll tell you a video that I I want to do but can't. Okay. Uh and I'm going to throw this out because because by throwing this out here, I will finally get the video out of my head and I don't have to I don't have to pour over this on my ideas board. Right. I've got it out. Someone out there can have it. Mhm. Which is on content for kids on YouTube not really being so we're not talking about like the the stuff from years ago with like algorithmically generated Elsa and Spider-Man videos. And we're not talking about stuff that is for younger kids. We're talking about stuff that's for so the ages maybe nine to 13 that kind of age. If you ever looked at YouTube trending that will show up there quite a lot. And what stuff so there's a couple of reasons I don't want to do this. First it would involve actively calling specific creators out. I could not tell the story without naming people and I don't want to do that. I don't think that's a fair thing to do. Certainly if you if you're ever going to do that then the thing to do is do right of reply. You reach out to them. You get their response to it like there's a whole ethical thing that you're required to do that apparently is mostly ignored on YouTube but like basic ethics you reach out you get the response. I don't do that. I don't want to do that. I don't want to name this is the problem but in for the examples I know I would have to specifically go this is the problem. Fine doing that for television. On the I did a video about advertising disclosures and I'm okay to call out I'm okay to call out a television show because that is run by a corporation with a hundred employees. I'm not I'm not saying you there you have made the mistake. Most YouTube operations I'll be I'll be pointing at a person and I don't want to It also feels like punching up instead of punching down. Absolutely. Yeah. So I know setting that aside I would have to make specific examples. Maybe I could maybe I could like get some to animate you're still talking about people. And secondly I don't want to deal with the backlash from that audience. You know I don't want kids angrily I don't want internet kids defending their heroes to come at me because you're not going to be able to reason with that you're not going to be able to reason with any internet crowd but it's just I don't want that hassle. So this is this is what this came from is comparing two videos on what was judged age-restricted and safe. So, again, the title would be something like how safe is YouTube for children or something like that. Again, so your first comparison is to the TV I grew up with and to all the regulations that broadcast television has to have for protection of kids. And the one that that is in my head, aside from all the stuff about sex and violence, the obvious ones, there is one about imitable behavior. I might be using the right I might be using the wrong word there. Behavior that could be imitated. Yeah. So, the two videos I really want to compare, neither of which like I endorse as a thing, just to be clear. There was a British YouTuber team about 3 years ago, I think now, who were doing big just hurting themselves for views. Which like it's Jackass, it's a genre. I have no problem with that. Like I grew up in there. Yeah. He the the title was cementing my head inside a microwave. Jesus. Now, like it's not actually cement. It's I think the US term is like spackle. It's the stuff you put on walls that hardens. Like so like fixed drywall patches and stuff like that. Yeah. I I'm like I'm not going to call these guys out cuz the the first 15 seconds of that video is some of the best editing I've ever seen for a coming up. It's it's brilliantly done. But obviously, age-restricted backlash, like no adverts on it. Absolutely. But YouTube still has that up, I think. But obviously like that was a news story cuz the fire brigade had to come and save his life because it went wrong. Like yeah. It was it was a news story, public apology kind of thing. Like no ads and anything like that. And that was in my head because I saw something on trending a few months ago, which was and again, I have to call out a specific video here. There's there's no I I don't want to imply that this is a deliberate thing. This is I would read it as folks who have no one in the loop who is saying this is maybe not something we should do. So, I'm not I'm not going to I'm not going to criticize overly. I'm criticizing the idea which was last to escape concrete wins. Yeah. And you've got three guys doing all the the the the hyperactive cuts that has become common for YouTube young Yeah. Yeah. pretending to be in setting concrete. And it's clearly not because like Yeah. Like a alkali burns like physical burns cuz it's it's an exothermic reaction. That is obviously not real, but they're playing it as real. And that's the sort of thing that would be completely utterly blocked from broadcast at least in in any European country. I don't know how the First Amendment affects that in the US, but certainly for for kids Yeah. um that like growing up we had the US used to have public service announcements. We'd call them public information films about not playing on construction sites or with construction equipment. The idea that a show for kids, teenagers, anything like that would encourage something like that is just No. Absolutely not. You don't You don't even If there's a million kids watching that and one of them now thinks that it's safe to play in concrete then not only is that that a bad thing obviously cuz the kid's going to get hurt, but also that's a a lawsuit in enormous liability for them. Just may a self from a purely selfish perspective for them. Ignoring the welfare of kids, that's a lawsuit waiting to happen. But YouTube will happily serve up adverts on that. That's suitable for everyone. That's suitable for all ages. And rather than the the overt way that this is clearly bad for kids there is this subtle thing of this is this So, that is So, that was a long diversion. But there is a lot of stuff out there that is not obviously unsafe for children. But with a moment's thought that the algorithm doesn't have and the human reviewers generally don't have time to have. They'll be off to all right, is this a is this obviously a stunt? Is this a is someone messing about in some gray slime? Okay, right, we're fine. There's a lot of stuff that could cause imitable behavior. I would love to make that video. Like I can see like the copyright video, like the advertising video. I I have the structure of that in my head. It's 30 to 40 minutes long. It's got a few jokes in there and a really nice conclusion and Nope. I'm not going to call out specific people despite the fact I just kind of did, but you know what I mean by that. I'm not I'm not going to put someone's face in the thumbnail. Um and I don't want to have to deal with a load of kids defending that crowd. Um it's That sounds like a Nerd City video. Doesn't it? It does. And that's someone who is absolutely up for THAT FIGHT. YOU KNOW? I'M I'M JUST SAYING. I totally get not wanting to, you know, unleash that potential comment section cuz even in the the tech world here, like I'd say most tech YouTubers are are pretty close to each other. There's not a lot of drama going on in here. And yet I'll still see in comments people attacking other creators or defending other creators on things that like there is absolutely nothing to defend against. Maybe just two people had a different opinion. Like it's it's this whole parasocial relationships thing which like they it feels like there's been so much meta discourse about that now cuz I I did a talk I'm sorry, I'm going to name drop here. I did a talk at the Royal Institution a few years ago which was which which again sounds like prison from a comic book, but the Royal Institution is is like very very famous scientific society in London. And had a whole section at the point where where parasocial relationships were starting to become a mainstream concept that you you attach this person and defend them. And my brain does not do that. I just I don't have that in my head. I find it deeply uncomfortable when someone does that towards me and try to discourage it as much as I possibly can. But at the same time, the second channel's kind of about that. That's kind of what it's it's like built on. Like even even if you just go by the first channel and it's your name It's my name. and and you're the host every time. And so they come back expecting one thing to be common about every single one of these videos is I get to see Tom do something. Um Which is why I had love doing guest videos every January. I didn't do them this year. Um I really enjoyed going, "Yeah, you know what? Taking this week off. Here's another person." Yeah. And despite the fact that these videos are frequently better than the ones I'm doing. Um if the title's good, yeah, it'll work. But you can see the regular audience not coming back as often for that. And that is something I'm not really comfortable with. I like there are lots of people who handle that really well. I mean, how do you handle it? Cuz your channel is is Do you have a distinction between you as your name and you as MKBHD? So, yeah, definitely. I I and it's very intentional. Uh there is a difference between what I share publicly uh and what I experience. And and it's a very limited slice that MKBHD is. It's a presentation of a limited slice of that. Um and that's on purpose. Now, it is kind of cool still that I'll be you know, I I share the videos and the text stuff and I'll see people in public and I'm like, "Oh, I've I bought this phone because of you." Like it's you know, they feel that attachment, which is cool. Um and I do share Sorry. Sorry. I do also I I play a sport, which is a public sport with spectators, and they will come to games, and that's cool, too. And some people will even say they started playing the sport because they saw it in in you know on a channel or something like that which is cool. Um but it yeah it is a very limited slice of it specifically so that I cannot feel uncomfortable with anything because I did not share it. Exactly. Which is why I'm always so cautious in interviews like this. Why I again why I keep diverting the questions. Because I am here as that public version of me. It's like going back I I should have picked a stage name. Uh by the time I realized that it was far too late. Yeah. Um but ideally for anyone who's starting out on YouTube like number one pick a stage name. I wish it was possible to pick a stage face. I'm kind of slightly envious of the people who are wearing masks and things like That's an interesting that is an interesting point. But I suspect that's true for pretty much everyone who's ever been in the public eye. Oh yeah. Well so there was a point on YouTube and this was maybe let's see. Probably about three to four years in to when I started making videos that I decided actively not to show my face. And I was making videos about devices. My hands were in it sometimes. Like I had had videos of my face in the beginning and I was like no more face. No more face. This will just be my voice and my hands. And I would show gadgets and I'd show devices and things like that. And so I went for like a full year or two without showing my face. And I was like very happy with the fact that I you know no matter how this goes there is some level of anonymity. Um which is really cool but then it was much harder to make those like personal recommendations where people can come back to an MKBHD video and know to expect the thing that we do like so well. So I went back to a roll showing my face and talking to a camera and it made a really big difference and people now knew what to come back to. So there it is a little bit of a balancing act where you know maybe someday in the future there'll be like a deep fake version where I can like slightly alter my voice and face so like it'll be personal but not me. Um but you you also see channels doing the management where they have had that presenter for a long time and then they sort of start another person and start another person and it becomes the team over time. I think that is very difficult and especially if the name of the channel is already the first presenter, it might just be doomed from that point. who's done that really well? Answering progress. That's a great as long as because it's answering progress and the name of the channel isn't It wasn't originally. It's it's been a steady change. That was 3 years ago. That was one person doing one thing and it's a whole brand shift that as far as I can tell I I don't know, but as far as I can tell that seems to be I mean, it's three very clever people. I think that's I I if that's not premeditated from the start, I'll be very surprised and they've done it and they've come through the other end. It can be done. Maybe maybe not for me. Yeah. Yeah, I think I think we're in the club of you know, people like uh, Linus or uh, I'm just thinking of people who go by their name where Linus did do it though. He has multiple He has he's like I would I would say he's in like a gray area where it's his name and people mostly come back for him, but he does have some other hosts that do well and do I think he could leave that channel and it would have the same feel and still be called Linus Tech Tips? I don't know. That's a really gray area Yeah, that's a long-term gray area. it's it's got that parasocial element. Do you know Dropout, formerly CollegeHumor? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, they have basically pivoted to being a streaming service Mhm. that is is basically parasocial. You know, it's the same crew every time. Mhm. It's doing different formats, but it's it's about them and I think an approach for a lot of people would be we're going to do a Patreon and host it on YouTube. Whereas they've gone, "No, we are a streaming service. We're doing professional shows. And there seems to be this spectrum from it is one person, you are supporting them, to this is a brand and this is what you come back for and this is a reputation. And I would love to push more that way. Um Yeah. difficult when you when you want both. Uh we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. I don't want to put you on the spot too much here, uh but I now have a channel that is about meeting other people and collaborating with YouTubers or people with skills or companies or anything like that. So, what would you pitch as that? Cuz obviously you have you have sport, uh but there's not I'm not going to be able to do uh do an ultimate frisbee match in like uh in like one day of filming. Right, right. What would what would you want to do for something like that? This is this is me saying come on the Plus channel, but there's also me going what are you interested in? Cuz I'm I'm using that as an excuse to get over fears that I've had to introduce things to other people and to have things introduced to me. What's what's on your bucket list of I have not found an excuse to do that. And while while you while you're thinking about that cuz cuz one of the things that I have is is there are things I want to do that I don't have an excuse for. I want to go and do this. Yeah, that's not a good video. It's not a good It's not a good thing. I can't I can't reasonably expense this. Like what's what's on your list stuff like that. So, I have like the the the sort of core things that I I enjoy. It's the tech, it's making videos, it's the sports that I play, but I also have these other I've probably mentioned this at some point before, these other couple random bucket list things where I really like experiencing natural phenomena, like weather phenomenon. Um I've had I mean, here we get hurricane blizzard, down south you get, you know, hurricane. I've I've not yet done two, which are seen a tornado, Yep. I thought storm chasing was going to come up. yeah, and experience the aurora borealis. I have not actually seen or heard it. One of those is scarier than the other. The first two are for sure. Terrified of electricity. No, I'm just kidding. Um I'm from a production perspective, they're a complete pain in the ass because Oh, hard to capture those and not be in mortal danger. At least the first two. either either in mortal danger or you need to see that there's a see the solar forecast and then drop everything and travel many, many miles. Those are Yeah, okay. I'll I mean, I'll add I'll add storm chasing to the list. Sure. If it happens, I'll let you know. I was hoping you were going to pitch something that was going to be like in New Jersey that Well, here's the other one. Okay, the other one is I do want to visit all 50 states, but I have a hard time coming up with a reason for about 10 of them. So, I think tornado states. Tornado in Oklahoma might just be the perfect like I've never been, but like I got to see a tornado in like, you know, the Great Plains. Maybe there's a reason there. Um but yeah, I've I've gone to like I think I've been in 35 something like that states. So, yeah. Maybe there's something there. Yeah. Have you I mean, I assume How many states actually, I should ask. How many states of the United States have you actually been to? Oh, see See, you added of the United States. I'm in a denial. Um I don't know. I've uh Not very many. Uh There's only a couple good ones. I'm just going to be honest. Oh. I'm just going to be honest. Oh, no. Iowa. Iowa is going to come for you so hard. I've never been, so I can't speak to them, but, you know, I know I know the ones I like, you know? Um I'm keeping my mouth shut on this one. I'm not going to I'm not going to risk offending an American state. Look, Tom Scott's been in New Jersey. We've got New Jersey pride going. Like it's a good It's one of the good ones. First time I was in New Jersey, um I was driving down one of the one of the big roads, probably the turnpike. And just realized I was driving through the opening sequence of The Sopranos. Nice. Turnpike. Yep. By luck I woke up this morning by Aloe Blacc 3 on my phone. Like, all right, I'm going to play that. I'm going to cruise down here for a while. This is Yep, this is Yeah. Yeah, see it's one of the good ones. Yeah. Um your channel you were just saying how you're like kind of getting with other creators and going over fears and stuff like that. Has there been anyone that you almost didn't do because of how scared you were of it? Or or is there like a specific one that just like you really really were nervous about before going into it? Yeah. When When's this When's this podcast coming out? Is it Friday. So yeah, maybe. No, it's it's going to be in a week's time. It's going to be the next video. Um I have had a phobia of roller coasters. For a long long time. I remember you saying something about that. I think you mentioned you were on those robo coasters and I think you mentioned one in Seaside, which is actually not too far so yeah, there are a few places in the world where you can get on a robo coaster, which is a robot arm with two seats on the end. Um Yeah. What? Is it in Seaside Heights? It's a big industrial robot arm. There's a couple in the US. I think the ones in the UK have closed down now. There's one in in I think Lego There's a lot in in Legoland in Denmark, I think. And there's definitely a couple in the US. They don't They didn't bother theming it for this one. It was just Do you want to ride on a robot arm? We put two seats and a harness on the end. And you got five settings and setting five is like the Incredible Hulk. Uh swinging you around. Oh my god. Oh, if you get the chance, do it. I need to. The thing I'm I'm particularly scared of is not stuff like that. Cuz over the years I've been able to do all sorts of adrenaline junkie things. I've been scared by all of them. Mhm. But it's not a roller coaster, which is the thing I'm actually scared of. It is that harnessed in, no emergency stop, no power or control. You are just on a track going. Mhm. And there is no way to stop this. And that that for all my life, ever since I was young, has been the thing I want to do. And without giving away any spoilers, yeah, the next video on the plus channel is is it's me and and the the thing I'm collaborating with is largest theme park in the UK. Awesome. That's diving right in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that was That was a lot. And what happened is, you know, months ago the crew went, "Tom, yeah, we've got this on the list. Do you Do you want to do it?" I am Sure, that is that is a problem for future me. I know that's a That's a psychology thing, right? You You ask someone, "Do you want to start putting money in a pension pot?" They go, "No." You ask, "Do you want to start in 3 months?" They go, "Yeah, absolutely." Mhm. Um Yeah, same way future future me would future me will be fine with that, you know. Yeah. But once it's in the calendar, right? I I would like I would like anyone who watches that video to know that none of that is acting. I am not overacting for the camera at any point. That is just me. That is just And worryingly, it is like actual me. It's not It's not presenter Tom Scott. Presenter Tom Scott went away. You can You can kind of see the change happen from cuz we got to go behind the scenes. Uh I Looking at the safety equipment and doing a track walk will not make me feel better because the actual thing that I'm scared of is the drop. Mhm. Is that over the over the top stomach drop feeling that's the thing I'm scared of. So, none of that helps. You can sort of see me go from "Oh, yeah, no, this is great. I'm doing behind the scenes infrastructure stuff. Oh, yeah, I can ask this question to me." Just very scared me. Oh, man. That's That's going to make it a great video. I can already tell. So, obviously I have to ask, "What are you scared of?" That's a good question. I was going to say like when you go from roller coaster adrenaline level to like bumping up my brain just went straight to skydiving Mhm. which is theoretically about the same safety level. Oh. As far as statistically You're more likely to get injured skydiving. Yeah. By the way, fact like this is one of those factoids that I don't know if it's true. There is a story that the UK National Health Service uh makes a loss on charity skydives. Because it costs more to the NHS to heal all the people who have broken legs than it does that is raised. Okay. Um All right, well then that's probably bit different to roller coasters, but having said that, uh skydiving is one of the things I did when I was like 20 21. Uh hated it. Stomach drop feeling. Hated it. It's a hell of a way to find out you don't like skydiving. That's hilarious. Um Yeah. But Yeah, uh whatever it is that that you are scared of like whatever it is that's that's in the back of your head that if you knew you were meeting that or doing that in half an hour you'd be freaking out, that's where I was going into Alton Towers, going into the theme park because it is not a rational fear. It is not something that I can just breathe in and get over. It is it it's a phobia. Right. And uh But you you legitimately Yeah. overcame it. Or would you say that I'm not giving you any spoilers for that. Yeah, it's awesome. I will say that the the crew had shooting scripts ready for he's got on the roller coaster and he's not got on the roller coaster. Like That's awesome. There were There were There were multiple branching paths available there. Yeah. To go back to the Tom's Talks plus video real quick, you did a collaboration with James Hoffman. Oh. One of my like favorite creators. lovely. You'll be happy to know that he is just as lovely in person. We've spoken a couple times and he's sent us coffee and stuff. He's He really is the best. Um You went into it. You did not like coffee when you were 14. And then I never reevaluated that cuz cuz I don't really drink coffee. do that. I didn't start drinking coffee till I was like 25 or something like and now I'm obsessed with it. But um but anyways, yeah, towards the end you decided you did kind of like it. At least you liked the espresso. You thought it was an experience. Are you drinking any since then? Has it become a daily thing, a weekly thing? Uh No, but it's become a thing I can do socially. You can do it socially. really nice. That feels like what I unlocked from that was being in a coffee shop um One video on comes to mind. I was in uh Scotland a while back and we're just meeting up beforehand and we're just going for coffee and being able to go, "Actually, yeah, no, I'll get that." Mhm. As opposed to going, "Can I just get a glass of tap water?" is is quite a nice social lubricant thing to do. And being able to unlock that skill is is is what I got out of that. That's I haven't reached that level. I was going to say, do you think James could convince Mar- Marquez? We have had uh Peter McKinnon tried once, but it was just like a latte from the bistro down here, which was not great. I kind of want to see the full-blown You You were there for It was a half-hour video. You went from the start of like It's It's a weird thing. I mean, he could sell that as an experience. I don't I don't think he wants to. I would buy it as an experience. I think that is an experience like you don't like coffee, let's work through this. But there was also the possibility that I genuinely didn't like coffee. Um I feel like it felt a bit like hot sauce. It's a bad comparison to make, I know, in many many ways. But this is something that is in in coffee's case bitter. Mhm. And espresso is I I think not a pleasant thing until you get used to what you are experiencing and until you get used to what to expect from it. Because yeah, if if you just Here Here is an arbitrary bitter substance. You don't see people like looking at Nintendo Switch cartridges with a bitter coating on them and going, "Oh yeah, no, we would add other subtle flavors to this." If If that's how your brain's reacting, yeah. Um but it turns out that it's actually Yeah, I I see why people like it. It's still not a regular thing for me. But for me it was it was unlocking that social experience that made it worth it. You're You're not a coffee person, are you? Yeah, no. I'm I also feel like my brain is very brutally analytical in that way, where it was literally just like, "Here, taste this substance. I do not like this taste. All right, the end. I don't like coffee." Like that's just how it went. Um Yeah, same same with me. Yeah. But then if if that was true, there's a lot of stuff I didn't like as a kid that I wouldn't like now. Right. So we You know, I hot sauce will happily Yeah. That was That was Look, have you just done a thing with hot sauce, right? Our last episode was just hot sauce. I was I was going to suggest that what you two do, but I don't know after his second round I don't know if you'd want to go through that. that. I'm 100% up for that. It's a lot. I mean, if you ever get the chance to try the Hot Ones hot sauces, they're We have them here afterwards if you want it. Oh, yeah, we're absolutely doing that. That's Yeah. That's a trip. Um it's a good time. All right. Well, I have I have one more question for you. And this might be a question uh I'm actually hoping you've never been asked before. All right. See, now I'm worried. Now I don't have a prepared response for this. Perfect. Okay, even better. Uh How fast can you type the alphabet? Oh, uh don't know. But is this a Is this a thing you test everyone on? Um All right. It sure is. Okay. Yeah. We're screen recording. Here we go. Okay. See, would you See, it's a MacBook keyboard. Wait, wait, wait. So we do have a uh we have a mechanical keyboard and we have a chiclet-style keyboard if you prefer something else. I mean, what I'm tempted to do is bring my own laptop in. I mean, you can. It's just a website. I'm I'm going to bring my home laptop in. We'll We'll We'll We'll take We'll take We'll We'll take a break. Sorry, that's not my job, but uh Full size. I'm expecting good things now. Let's see how this goes. I have only just realized this this This is your mouse. Uh thank you for loaning the mouse. Um cuz cuz I spilled water on my touchpad, man. I haven't got a warranty replacement yet. Um I have only just realized that this is my RGB mouse, which is ludicrous. It's glowing. It's beautiful. Okay, so what we typically do is give people three shots Okay. Um and just FYI as you're typing if you mess up a letter it will not continue. You have to hit every single letter A through Z. Okay. And that's the only rule. You don't have to hit enter at the end cuz sometimes that resets it but All right, so let me I'm going to put my glasses on for this because I'm extremely competitive. I am I'm going to I'm going to move the microphone as well. Is that okay? Sorry to Sorry to the sound engineers. Can I All right. I was going to point this at the keyboard but it's not turning so we'll just go with it. So I first of all, what time am I trying to beat? Oh, okay. Yeah, no I love this so far. I am I am competitive as hell. Okay. I think you're looking at about 4 and 1/2 seconds. around four. Is it Quinn number one I think? Quinn Snazzy from Snazzy Labs. It's definitely under five and above three. Oh, my heart's going now. I'm over competitive. Oh man, I wish you had like a fitness tracker on or something and we could have the stats up on the 5.1 That's not good enough. That's not It's not good enough. I screwed up I screwed up on W. Do you want a reference to where you are with that? You get three tries. So Okay, this is this is try number two. This is try number two. Wait, wait, was that two or was are we going into two now? No, no, that was one. You're All right. Until you get to Z that's it. You said it was 5.1? Yeah. So you're right between Jad from Radiolab and Josh Wardle the creator of Wardle. Oh, I've got to beat that. You've got to beat that. All right, here we go. You're It would be fourth place. All right. 3.5 3.555 You are good. When I said that beat You're almost a full second ahead now of first place. That was incredible. Do you want to go one more? I mean yeah, let's We'll count fastest so Cuz I definitely I definitely had to retype something there. There's a There's a big gap. Yeah, w x y z. Yeah. That's where I screwed up every time. I'm interested You're going very fast. Does this feel It's weird typing the alphabet, right? Cuz it's something you almost never do. There's a couple times where one hand is doing everything and but wow. Yeah, w x y z. All right, here we go. Hands are shaking now. Try to put pressure on me. No, already went. Already went. Already went. still 3.5 3.55. That's going to be up That's going to be on the leaderboard, my friend, for quite a while. seeing someone beating that, but I had one bit of luck there that everything just I still think I mistyped a w in there and just I reckon I reckon with effort I could get that under three. Wow. But it would be like a hundred tries and that would be the that would be the best the best Well, I am thoroughly impressed with 3.55 on your second try. Oh, that's a relief. That's a relief. That feels like That feels like the Top Gear lap. Yeah, that's how we finished it all after. We do need the physical board with like the magnets eventually, though. There's something intimidating about that. Well, that's a great way to end it. Um thank you for joining me. This is a lot of fun. If I actually got that up, I'd never forgive myself. Make sure to save the screen recording, so we definitely have evidence of it. Um I'm glad I witnessed the sub four. Well, we'll come back next week. Thank you for joining us. We'll talk a lot more tech next time, I promise, but this is way too much fun. See you guys later. Waveform is produced by Adam Molina and Ellis Rubin and we are partnered with Vox Media and our intro and outro music was created by Vain. So.
