This is a snapshot of Dutch soccer fans doing what Dutch soccer fans do best. For decades following their national team, the traveling fans have donned their orange, assembled by the thousands, and walked city streets behind the famed orange bus to the hosting stadium. And June 20th, 2026 was no different. Taking public transit and biking to meet a university campus at the edge of the host city's museum district, an estimated 25,000 fans headed south. Following a residential avenue, the massive crowd benefited from the shade of an urban canopy of old growth oaks lining the roadway. Daylighting onto Main Street, they then crossed a waterway bordered by a pedestrian trail. Now nearing the stadium, the crowd merged alongside the path of the city's light rail. Following the red line southbound, they arrived at the city's stadium center. Across 3 mi or 5 km through wooded, fairly compact neighborhoods, crossing canals and pedestrian trails, bordering along a mass transit system, [music] the route would feel a fairly standard one for the traveling Dutch fans, aside from perhaps the heat. Because while the route doesn't seem so out of the ordinary for the walking European super fan, this is Houston, Texas, which, even within a state known for being car-obsessed, within a country known for being car-obsessed, is known by Americans to be unwalkable, sprawling, and car-obsessed. What this 3-mi World Cup jaunt serves to show is that Houston, along with its home state, are easy to stereotype and oversimplify, but on the ground level, they're beginning to look a little different. Texas is, of course, booming. But the U-Haul Growth Index, which simply looks at the destination of one-way trucks rented, Texas has been either the number one or number two most common destination for movers every year since 2016. And by the ever-so-cliche indicator that's usually saved for California, if Texas were its own country, it'd be the world's eighth largest by GDP. And you, of course, know all this. Elon Musk talks about it, Greg Abbott brags about it, Fox News showcases it, and the state itself revels in it. But this Texas-sized population boom and corresponding economic miracle is more complicated than two sides of a highly politicized representation. While the bedrock has always been energy and gas exports, it's more than good old boys racking up absurd wealth on fossil fuels as the left would leave you thinking. And while business relocation and local investment has pushed the state economy to grow at a pace faster than most others, it's more than just a lack of red tape and conservative values opening up opportunities as the boosters from the right would have you to believe. Both energy and a comparatively pro-business environment are major contributors, but Texas has been growing upward for so long because of something more basic. It's just a remarkably steady growth engine that hasn't shown any real signs of slowing until, perhaps, now. Steadily growing without really slowing is a simple concept, but in a world of finite resources, it's a uniquely challenging cycle to stimulate and maintain. And to understand how Texas just grows and grows, we need to consider where Texas grows. [music] This is the Texas triangle. It's along the three points of this triangle, the Houston area, the Dallas-Fort Worth metro area, and the Austin and San Antonio metro area, where you find the highest population densities within the state. And it's along these urban areas' outskirts where you find the fastest growing population centers within the fastest growing state. In line with this population concentration, this triangle makes up for 70% of the state's total population, its relative economic might as the triangle generates almost 80% of the state's GDP. And all of this is driven by the points on the triangle. Take Houston. In the 1830s, Texas struck out as its own country. It wanted its independence from Mexico, but it wanted to be a slave-holding state annexed [music] into the US during a period where annexing a slave-holding state was a tough political sell. So, it set off on its own and it put its capital right here for the first couple years in Houston where the Rice, now a residential building, stands. Well, the independence of the Republic of Texas wouldn't last long, a state-wide sense of independence would. >> [music] >> In 1948, a century after the state had joined the Union, Houston voters bucked the trend sweeping across most major cities in the US and voted against adopting a city-wide zoning ordinance or a municipal law that would outline what type of buildings would be built where. In the next decade, the city doubled in size and nearly reached [music] a million inhabitants. And as it crossed the million member mark in the early 1960s, residents again voted against zoning ordinances. This legacy has led to things like this, Huckleberry Circle, where expensive single-family homes are abutted by massive apartment towers. It also made room for things like never-ending parking lots and this picture in particular. From the '70s, this shot has become synonymous with Houston's car obsession and lack of central vision in creating a cityscape. This is the heart of the city, just blocks away from where the Republic of Texas capital building once stood. But again, it's an oversimplification to call Houston an unwalkable, unplanned [music] urban disaster. For one, this same area of downtown has fundamentally transformed over the last 50 years. It now looks like this. But more importantly and more transformatively, this unique lack of zoning on account of just not wanting ordinances unintentionally opened the lane for the city to become an unrelenting growth machine. With limited rules outside of lot minimums in mid-century Houston, the energy sector boomed and the city sprawled to a size larger than the entire London metro area. A big city built for cars and car parking with continued demand for more housing then started to change on account of opportunistic land developers and builders. Since the 1990s, Houston has been infilling housing and it has created a virtuous cycle. Take for example this lot in Northwest Houston. Located in a quiet residential neighborhood called Acre Homes, this traditionally would be a lot for a single family home set a good bit off the street, perhaps just like its neighbor across the alleyway. But instead, a local design and planning firm had a different idea for the lot. Rather than one lot, they split it into four. Rather than a single family home, it's now slated to serve potentially four families. At least in theory, this creates benefits for both developers and residents. CGEA Planning, rather than building and selling one larger home for, say, $400,000, can now build out and sell four homes for $150,000 each and make 50% more on sales. And while turning a profit, they can also be proud of their community impact. They're providing four homes to be sold at a comparatively low price that, through increasing the neighborhood population density, helps local business, incentivizes further business development, makes the neighborhood more dynamic and appealing to more pro-density development, which makes the area more walkable, more welcoming, more livable. And it's not just a theory, it's already happening here. Just look down the street. All these homes are on small footprints and they're all cheap. This phenomena is most acutely felt here within the I-610 motorway, which rims the core of the city. In the '90s, [music] applications to replant big lots to smaller lots had become so common that city officials didn't want to deal with them on a case-by-case basis, so they dropped minimum lot size from 5,000 square feet to 1,400 feet and reduced mandatory setbacks of homes from 25 feet to just 5 feet off the street. Within this loop, denser and denser housing has allowed the area to maintain about 4,500 people living within each square mile. Nothing crazy in terms of density, but on par with the likes of Sacramento, Long Beach, and Atlanta. Surprisingly, given the city's reputation, it's becoming more and more bikeable. While the inner loop has a fairly high walkability score. But an uptick in population density and better walkability scores don't speak to why Houston has been such a draw in the last 25 years. It's the fact that these denser housing projects are cheap, too. Of the 20 largest metro areas in the US, Houston has the second cheapest housing, backing its welcoming reputation with real economic opportunity for new arrivals. Depending on rankings, Houston is the US's most diverse or second most diverse major city. Houston is welcoming and this is partly due to the city's heritage. This was, once, Mexico. This is also a historically black city and serves as one of the best landing spots for black professionals with nearly a fifth of all businesses black-owned and a professional workforce where about 20% of teachers and 20% of doctors are black. It's been a welcoming city to refugees, whether that's Vietnamese relocating during the 1970s or the quarter of a million that were displaced during Hurricane Katrina. And it's also structurally welcoming. Thanks to infill, Houston adds housing and people without seeing its housing prices shoot skyward. Because housing and cost of living is relatively cheap, it's a place where construction jobs, food and service jobs, manufacturing jobs can more than make ends meet. Houston is by no means perfect. It's fairly segregated in places, gentrification is pushing out families in other areas like the Third Ward. But on the whole, it's a leader in opportunities for minorities. Infill is also being matched by overflow as the Houston suburbs continue to grow, too. And it's the same thing. Because there's so much room to grow, there's high demand, but the supply isn't strained, so it stays cheap. Because the building sector keeps humming, the growth machine keeps running, no matter how hot the summers get. Or apparently, how cold the winters get. Three and a half hours up Interstate 45 from Houston is Dallas. Or really Dallas, Fort Worth, Arlington, and a host of suburbs from Plano to Irving that are putting Houston's growth numbers to shame. The metro area has even passed Houston in recent years as the fourth most populous in the US. And as far as places for cities to sit, this place isn't the best. The de facto capital of North Texas, the Dallas-Fort Worth area is a southern plain city and as such it's prone to get hit by the occasional ice storm during the winter and will see the occasional snow storm or two. Once summer hits though, it's relentlessly hot and muggy, stacking streaks of 100° F or 38° C days for weeks on end. And between those two extremes, when hot happens to run into cold, there are tornadoes with one having actually touched down in downtown Fort Worth in 2000. The weather just isn't great and as for navigable waterways around here, practically a necessity for any major American city, well, there aren't any of those either. Not that they didn't try. While Houston benefits from the navigable Buffalo Bayou, Port Houston, and buoyancy to help float its economy, Dallas [music] has no such advantage. They just have the Trinity River. Early city boosters believed that with a little engineering the Trinity could connect North Texas to the Gulf and for a few decades the Army Corps of Engineers tried but to no avail. But Dallas, as it is now, was nothing if not determined. It became a rail hub, it became a cattle hub, and the area is now a natural gas hub. Shear will and boosterism from city founders put Dallas on the map with little in the way of physical advantages, the city has brought in big business by building a big airport, keeping operational costs low, and maintaining a large, skilled, comparatively cheap workforce through breakneck home building. And now the area has over 20 Fortune 500 companies to show for it, only trailing New York City and Chicago. With Texas Instruments, Toyota North America, Charles Schwab, Comerica, AT&T, and Caterpillar, the area has become a hub for everything from tech and finance to heavy machinery. More companies are coming and more people are too. Now that it's on the map, the city, as much as anywhere in the state, has leaned into its natural geographic advantage. There's just a lot of flat land around here. Less glitzy, less nationally prominent, less populous and sizable than Dallas, is Fort Worth. While downtown Dallas is corporate, Fort Worth has the stockyards. While Dallas feels metropolitan with a Texas flair, Fort Worth just feels like Texas. But long in Dallas's shadow, Fort Worth is now stealing headlines. It recently passed Austin in population, it ranks high among the nation's fastest growing cities, and it's on Dallas's heels. The city is growing fast and really not showing signs of slowing because of how it's growing. Conceived in the mid-century, then built out in the '80s, the I-820 loop was meant to be a beltway that surrounded Fort Worth and connected the city's suburbs. But now the city limits look like this. Fort Worth spills out in just about every direction beyond the confines of the beltway. Fort Worth is able to add population as fast as anywhere in the state because it's adding land just about as fast as anywhere in the state. Fort Worth is annexing its suburbs and adding single-family developments to keep up with the demands for more housing in the region. The Terrabella development is under construction right now, but you can buy a five-bedroom house for under $400,000. Just about anywhere else, that's a steal, and this one comes with a Fort Worth address, meaning you'd be living large in one of America's biggest >> [music] >> and fastest-growing cities. But this development happens to be here. 20 mi out from downtown, and while it's just a construction site now, it's planned to be the most generic of single-family suburban developments. And yet, somehow, it's now Fort Worth. While providing utilities, municipal services like police and fire will fall on the city. It's a worthwhile trade-off because it adds to the tax base in an important way, through property tax, while also adding to city housing stock to at least help keep up with demand. Because Fort Worth has been an especially popular destination since COVID, rents and housing prices have gone upward, but by national averages, they're still low [music] and they're still lower than Dallas's. Which speaks to another facet as to why Fort Worth is reaching farther north. They're following the firms, companies, and major employers that are moving out of Dallas and up into the northern suburbs. AT&T, Fifth Third Bank, Neiman Marcus, even the professional sports franchises, [music] the Dallas Stars and Dallas Mavericks, have left or are planning to leave downtown Dallas for perhaps not greener, but cheaper pastures north. Dallas is cheap by national standards, Fort Worth is cheap by Dallas standards, but these counties in the suburbs are cheap by North Texas standards [music] and it's proving a major draw. Access to the city at suburb prices has counties surrounding the Dallas-Fort Worth metro area growing by more than 30% in a decade. It's cheap square footage, new houses that go up fast, quaint smaller suburban downtowns with fairly accessible big cities nearby that have places like Frisco, Plano, and Irving booming. Former Californians tickled by the price tags and lack of taxes, and former Midwesterners working remote and searching for a change are now chasing the Texas dream, while North Texas is doing everything it can to keep up and maintain the validity of such a dream. Where Houston has infill, North Texas has fully embraced the sprawl. And with planes and planes to spread across, it too seems like an engine for stubbornly steady growth. But eventually, at some point, inevitably, unavoidably, there reaches a limit to the Texas dream. And Austin, Texas may be ground [music] zero. This was the original growth machine. Tesla, Oracle, Apple, all set up here. Elon Musk, Joe Rogan, and basically anyone that was fed up with COVID policies, coastal red tape restricting business, or just the plain sky-high cost of living in Chicago, LA, the Bay Area, or New York, seem to be taking their money and their business to Austin. In-migration had the city growing at a 4% clip from 2010 to 2020. Since then, it slowed to about a single percent a year. Middle-income earners have stagnated, low-income earners are leaving as the city has gone from a weird, sleepy university town to an increasingly hip tech hub. Picking up the slack, perhaps creating the slack, too, are Dripping Springs, Round Rock, and Liberty Hill, the suburbs where, again, the city isn't too far, the job is nearby or within a short commute, [music] and the dollar goes a little bit farther than it would in Austin. What Austin has learned, and what Dallas is quickly learning, is that the Texas dream is a mobile one. The Texas Triangle, the growth machine that fuels and is fueled by the dream of an easy commute, a cheap house, a friendly business environment, and a hopping economy, is changing in shape. It's pushing north out of Dallas, it's pushing into the suburbs of Houston and Austin, it's filling in between the cities. For the state, this probably works. For the new arrival, this probably works. But, it's putting cities in a bit of a bind. Any longtime Austinite will tell you that Austin has changed. A city that loved the Keep Austin Weird stickers is just no longer that weird. It's less steampunk and more Silicon Valley than ever. That may seem a privileged problem, or one of taste rather than substance, but there are real ramifications. In a state that taxes pretty lightly, these cities really count on property taxes, and with things cooling, Austin is now facing back-to-back years of a shrinking tax roll. Recently, on account of low sales tax revenue, Dallas announced it would be furloughing some city employees as its sales tax growth is lagging behind those in Plano, [music] Frisco, and Irving. If the Texas dream is a mobile one, it may prove to be a brushfire, burning fast across the plains, following easy fuel, and leaving burn scars behind. But, as it seems every Texas booster would want you to believe, that all may be a problem for tomorrow. When I started researching Texas for this video, I was reminded how difficult it is to understand a place this large and influential. It's not just that Texas is complicated, it's that almost every discussion about it comes with a different interpretation of what's actually happening. That's one of the challenges of making videos like this. The research is expansive, but the final explanation has to be concise, which means constantly deciding which details are essential and which are simply interesting. That's one of the reasons I've kept using Ground News while researching videos like this since I first partnered with them in 2023. Their app and website helps me compare coverage across hundreds of outlets, see where the reporting converges or differs, and build a more complete picture before drawing my own conclusions. Just take, for example, the coverage of a fatal shooting in Houston by an ICE agent. Ground News shows me that over 400 outlets covered this story. Scrolling through, I can quickly see the political distribution of coverage, how factual the reporting has historically been, who owns the outlets, and even filter by location to compare local coverage to international reporting. The left focuses on the use of deadly force, while the right focuses on who the victim was and the alleged circumstances that preceded it. Both headlines describe the same event, but they lead readers towards very different interpretations. That's why I don't rely on a single outlet or an algorithm that keeps serving me more of the same. >> [music] >> Comparing coverage helps separate the underlying facts from the framing, but that's only part of the picture. Just as important are the stories that never reach your radar in the first place. Ground News's Blind Spot feed surfaces stories receiving significant attention from one side of the political spectrum, but comparatively little from the other. The goal isn't to consume more news, it's to understand [music] it better. That's why I've kept using Ground News for years. It doesn't tell me what to think, it gives me the context to reach my own conclusions. It's also independently run and subscriber funded. To help you get the most of it, I partnered with Ground News to offer you guys 40% off the same unlimited access advantage plan I use at ground.news/wendover or by scanning the QR code on screen.
