Taiwan is the wealthiest place on Earth that faces such a credible near-term threat of getting invaded by a stronger power. That's because it's neighbor, the People's Republic of China, believes the island of Taiwan is an integral part of its territory and that reunification is not only ideal, but necessary. [music] And PRC leadership has explicitly said that the achievement of this necessity might require military force and tasked its People's Liberation Army with being prepared to invade the island by 2027. Taiwan's odds do not look good on paper. Chinese PLA is the world's largest military as measured by active duty personnel and second largest when measured on the basis of spending. It has more combat aircraft than anyone but the United States, more aircraft carriers than anyone but the United States, more amphibious warfare ships than anyone. Given Russia's failure in Ukraine, it's hard to argue that China is not the world's second strongest military power and its central guiding goal is being able to invade and hold this small but strategically and politically valuable neighboring island. But in spite of that, military analysts believe Taiwan actually has a chance. Not necessarily a good one, but a real one nonetheless and it's all thanks to its geography. Most notably, Taiwan's an island. Without a land route like when Russia invaded Ukraine, the start of an invasion becomes stunningly predictable. China would simply have to stage an [music] amphibious assault. There's just no way it could achieve a full takeover through paratroopers or air strikes alone. This amphibious assault would initially focus on capturing and then defending a beach to act as its logistical entry point to the island, what's called a beachhead. Effectively, they'd be trying to replicate D-Day. The trouble for the PLA is that D-Day is still, to this day, the largest amphibious landing ever conducted with about 150,000 Allied troops attacking and then defending their beachhead in Normandy. But China's effort would be harder. Back in 1944, the allies had the element of surprise. With a lack of electronic surveillance that allowed for successful deception efforts, German forces did not know with confidence that the boats were coming for Normandy until troops saw them with their own eyes. While German central command had some understanding that an invasion effort was coming, the lack of certainty on where meant they were unable to reinforce Normandy ahead of the landing, allowing the allies to go against relatively weak German defenses in the initial phase of invasion. The PLA doesn't have that luxury. Analysts believe an invasion force would need to number around 4 to 500,000 personnel to have a realistic shot of toppling the ROC, and assembling and staging these troops and their equipment on the mainland would be a month-long process almost impossible to hide. But the predictability goes further. The Taiwan Strait is [music] far rougher than the English Channel on average, and amphibious landings rely on near-perfect sea conditions to prevent landing craft from getting swamped, and also quite literally to stop troops from getting seasick, inhibiting their effectiveness when storming the beach. Clear skies are also necessary in maximizing the chances of success to allow air assets to operate without restraint, and these sorts of sea and air conditions should ideally last for days or weeks to allow for [music] a steady stream of reinforcements to arrive uninhibited. Taiwan's annual weather patterns are quite structured. [music] In winter, the island is hit by a northeast monsoon that blows strong winds towards it, [music] generating rough sea conditions in the strait for months on end that inhibit an amphibious landing. This subsides in spring, and wave heights lower into summer, but that's when typhoon season starts. Typhoon tracks can only be accurately forecasted 3 to 5 days [music] out, meaning the PLA can never have certainty about the 2-week weather window needed for the best shot of a successful invasion during summer. That leaves two key weather windows, April and October. Taiwan knows this. [music] If they see a month-long buildup, it's likeliest to translate into an invasion during one of these two months, allowing their military to mobilize in step. And even once an invasion started, the 100 miles or 160 km of separation between the island and China would give Taiwan about eight to 10 hour head start. Of course, much of what would happen in those hours is a massive air campaign to strike and destroy as many of the PLA ships as possible, but as that went on, ground forces would move to defend potential landing sites. And still then, there's plenty of predictability. You see, the majority of Taiwan's coastline is just not suited for an amphibious assault. Most of the east coast features massive cliffs, making movement inland near impossible. Much of the west coast is made up of muddy wetlands that would quickly trap landing vehicles. Substantial other portions have been developed into aquaculture farms, growing oysters, shrimp, or fish, meaning the coastal landscape is dotted with hundreds of small pools, concentrating invading vehicles onto limited and easily defensible roads. Among the beaches, they need the slope of the ground beneath the water enough to allow for landing craft to get close to shore, but then for the beach to have a shallow slope to allow vehicles to drive up easily. And it's got to be wide enough to give space for the sizable force. Taken together, there are very few Goldilocks Normandy-style beaches that allow for the successful landing and onward push of hundreds of thousands of troops. Analysts believe they have the number down to just 14. And though it's debated exactly how constrained the PLA is with their options given advances in technology, either way, Taiwan's natural defenses allow its military to concentrate its resources into limited areas. But between what's left, perhaps the most attractive landing site is here, Linkou and Bali North Beaches. Beyond their physical compatibility, they feature proximity to key strategic assets that China would [music] benefit from capturing quickly. And between the two beaches is the Port of Taipei. Well, China is known to be developing floating barges that can act as piers to allow for large non-amphibious vessels to unload personnel and cargo. Capturing a permanent port facility would likely allow for more capacity with less vulnerability to attack. Similarly, slightly further on, there's Taoyuan International Airport, the country's largest, which could act as an on-island airbase for the PLA as it works towards a complete capture. But perhaps the biggest advantage of this landing site is its proximity to the Tamsui River, allowing small fast boats a quick route into central Taipei. From the river's banks, it's just a mile to the presidential palace, whose capture would mark the biggest symbolic defeat for Taiwan. It's largely for this reason, in fact, that French marines landed nearby on the opposite bank of the mouth of the river during the Sino-French War in 1884. Their invasion ultimately failed, though, for largely the same reason why China would struggle. It's just too easy to predict and therefore defend against. Therefore, these beaches are some of the most frequent hosts of Taiwan's annual military drills. Over the years, they've ran simulations of essentially every phase of an invasion. In 2022, mimicking a build-up phase, reservists worked to rapidly construct a trench facility from which soldiers could fire onto the beach, stocked with supplies to last up to 30 days. The next year, with the president watching on, the military conducted a full amphibious landing drill with one side standing in as the PLA, while the other worked to stop them from their hardened positions. Over the next few years, there were at least four separate exercises related to countering an offensive via the Tamsui River. The Taiwanese side's tactic was to place floating gasoline barrels rigged with C4 explosives to be set off as Chinese vessels attempted to make their way through, but they also simulated exploding Guandu Bridge in order to physically block vessels from advancing further down the river and into Taipei. But what this strategically critical area lacks is infrastructure. You can find a 17th-century fort built by the Spanish empire along the river's mouth and Cold War era pillboxes dotting the beach, but no permanent modern fortifications. This is is likeliest starting point of one of the likeliest theoretical conflicts on Earth, and yet it looks like any other beach. That's because Taiwan just doesn't believe in permanent coastal defense infrastructure, thinking its vulnerability would mean it would almost certainly get destroyed through air strikes before the first boats even arrived. Rather, Taiwan builds its greatest military infrastructure in its most defensible positions. You see, while preventing China from successfully establishing a beachhead would be the most effective way for Taiwan to prevail, and while amphibious landings are an incredibly tricky military maneuver that giving massive advantage to the defending side, it's important that the nation's survival does not [music] hinge on it. There's just a tremendous power imbalance between the two militaries. If China breaks through, Taiwan's best hope is that friendly countries, Japan, South Korea, the Philippines, Australia, and most critically the US, join the fight. But reinforcements would take time to arrive, so the military has invested in assuring it can maintain a foothold on the island for as long as possible. That's why, deep beneath this mountain just north of central Taipei, is the Heng Shan Command Center. Very little is known about this facility beyond the fact that it exists. It's supposedly connected to the Ministry of National Defense headquarters by tunnel. There are apparently other entrances around the mountain. It's intended to house the president as they lead the war effort. It can survive nuclear blasts and EMPs, but the details pretty much end there. This is one of the only photos ever released from the inside, depicting former President Tsai Ing-wen in the facility as she received a briefing. Slightly more is known about the country's other most defensible facility, Jiashan Air Force Base. Jiashan is located on Taiwan's far less populated east coast in the outskirts of the city of Hualien. It's about as far from China as one can get on the island, meaning it'd be just about the least accessible location to a force invading from the west thanks to the enormous peaks stretching close to 13,000 ft or 4,000 m standing in [music] the way. But, that's not what makes this site so resilient. This is. These are the entrances to an underground hangar complex believed to be capable of storing 200 fighter jets. That's about 2/3 of the country's entire inventory and more than that of all but a dozen or so entire air forces worldwide. These are some of the only photos ever released from inside it showing an F-16 being loaded with an anti-ship missile. But, of course, this airbase has a vulnerability. The fighter jets might be safe, but they can't do much without a working runway. When this facility was originally built, missiles were not accurate enough to make precision strikes on runways from the distances that they'd likely be fired from, but that's no longer the case. It's for this reason that the military recently expanded this and other airbases' runways to a uniquely wide 200 ft or 60 m. Fighter jets only need a third of that width to reliably take off and land, so even if a missile does successfully strike, there's a greater chance that there'd still be a lane to keep operating with. Meanwhile, Taiwanese troops constantly drill their rapid runway repair capabilities and can reportedly patch an impact crater in just 2 and 1/2 hours. But, just like with coastal defenses, Taiwan's airbase strategy focuses on resilience through adaptability. That's why across the country, there are sections of regular highways like this. This stretch has been built wider and with stronger asphalt than most in order to serve as a temporary airbase in wartime. There are no overhead obstacles and the barriers in the center are easily removable, so adaptation can happen in about 24 to 48 hours. Now, Taiwan's defense doctrine is often described as the porcupine strategy. They seek to make it so costly for China to invade [music] that they just decide not to. This became the formal doctrine in 2017 when it became clear that Taiwan no longer had any realistic shot of matching China's military power head-on. The PLA had just amassed too many soldiers, fighter jets, missiles, drones. They'd amassed too much capability. So, rather Taiwan shifted to an asymmetric strategy. They'd pursue less capable, but less expensive platforms to make their dollar stretch further and therefore [music] acquire more. Particularly, they'd search for ways to destroy costly Chinese equipment [music] for a fraction of the cost. For example, prior to this focus, Taiwan's navy did buy four highly capable former US navy destroyers for $732 million, but these ships would inevitably and quickly become [music] prime targets for China's fighter jets and missiles. So, Taiwan equipped 42 far smaller [music] vessels with four missiles each, so their offensive capability would be distributed more widely. These smaller missile boats are easier for China to attack and destroy, but the number of them would make it costly and difficult for the PLA to destroy them before the bulk of their offensive capabilities are used. Similarly, the ROC navy has recently invested heavily in its mine laying capabilities as mines are an inexpensive, but relatively effective defensive weapon. But, the core of the porcupine doctrine has been Taiwan's [music] missile build-out. Following the imminent arrival of a massive order of US-made Harpoon [music] missiles, the military will have over 1,400, meaning Taiwan will have the highest concentration of anti-ship missiles in the world. These, of course, would be critical to inflict as much damage as possible on the PLA landing force before it arrives, [music] seeking to push numbers below the threshold needed to take the island. But, Taiwan's defense strategy has its critics. Military analysts argue that strategy is right, but that they don't embrace it enough. For example, the ROC had a prototype for an even smaller, fast-moving catamaran missile boat operated by a crew of just three. They were slated to order 60 of these, pushing the distribution of its missiles to a further extreme until the entire program got indefinitely delayed. Rather, they spent $8 billion on 66 new F-16 fighter jets and $1.28 billion dollars for 108 new Abrams tanks. Both highly capable pieces of equipment, but ones that are sure to become Chinese missile magnets. But then Ukraine happened. What was once considered the world's second most powerful military invaded a comparatively tiny neighbor and failed. Ukraine essentially put Taiwan's porcupine strategy into practice [music] and succeeded. So the ROC has learned endlessly from this conflict. But perhaps the most notable piece is the new found relevance of consumer grade [music] drones. Just as they did in Ukraine, these could play a huge role in Taiwan, even in that first critical phase of pushing back the amphibious invasion. But perhaps the one geographic disadvantage of Taiwan is that, once again, it's an island. From day one of an invasion and very possibly before, external supply lines would essentially cease to exist. It's in part for that reason that they've invested heavily over the past 2 years in building up a domestic drone manufacturing industry. And it's maximizing the definition of domestic, creating a 1.5 billion dollar program to subsidize manufacturers in exchange for an assurance that no component is sourced from mainland China. Something easier said than done in an industry 80% concentrated there. Of course, the other side of Taiwan's porcupine strategy, one centered on maximizing destruction to dissuade invasion, is that if Xi Jinping follows through on his threats, if China does seek to capture its neighbor, [music] it would be a horrifically, inconceivably bloody war. Taiwan has every right to defend itself if attacked by the PLA, but in doing so it would unleash a scale and sort of violence unseen this century. The hope is that the certainty of this outcome would prevent it from unfolding, but the fear is that reason regularly fails and that the People's Republic of China could make an era defining decision to attack the Republic of China. Preparing for the future is not only a theme of this video, it's the guiding characteristic defining my relationship with the sponsor of today's video, Chime. Chime is America's number one choice for banking for good reason. It provides an awesome, dependable, and approachable service. Open up a Chime account and you'll feel like the service is actually working for you. There are no monthly fees, no overdraft fees, and if you want to start seeing your savings grow, [music] Chime offers a 3.75% annual percentage yield. That's nine times the national average. This makes Chime a great service to start making some financial headway with less headaches and paperwork because it can all be done through the app. And another awesome feature is that when money does get a little tight, Chime offers an early payday feature where, should you need access to money from your upcoming direct deposit paycheck, you can access up to $500 before the check actually hits, which can be huge when you're in a pinch. And following this same people-first approach, Chime now offers the Chime card, a secured Visa credit card that earns 5% [music] cash back with no annual fees, allowing you to spend more effectively while also building your credit score. The card can even be set to safer credit building, which will have your account automatically pay off the card on time with funds saved in your account to ensure no missed due dates and subsequent credit score slips. Navigating the world of money management is just a pain and something I personally don't want to spend all my free time trying to understand, so it makes me really happy that a service like Chime exists and that they're interested in partnering with us as a channel. Give Chime a go by following the link in this video's description, chime.com/wendover, or the QR code on screen. It only takes 2 minutes, and if you do it now, you can get a bonus of up to $350 exclusively through my link.
