If you're watching this because you actually want to make stuff, go make stuff. That's the only way to get better. I'm Tom Scott. I've been making stuff for the internet for more than 25 years. I'm I'm here today to answer questions from the internet. This is creator support. >> [music] >> Colin asks, "Any tips on how to go viral so I can exit the workforce with everyone else?" Firstly, you will not be exiting the workforce. Make stuff. Every single project that you make is a new roll of the dice, is a new chance to go viral. What you want is to steadily grow, to build up your skills over time, to make stuff and make stuff and make stuff. And then, when you're in a position to make good stuff, then you want the number one, you want the viral hit, because then people can come and go, "Oh, there's more stuff here. You can do that Oh, and it's all good." That's what you actually want to do. You don't want to go viral yet. Make stuff. Angel of Lord asks, "Is upgrading your gear worth it?" Upgrading your microphone is worth it. That's the very first thing you should do when you've got some money coming in. Bad audio is is really difficult. I know that everyone's got subtitles on now anyway. If you don't have subtitles on your videos, you absolutely should. I think it's 30% of my viewers, and I'm on YouTube, watch with subtitles. On mobile, it's going to be way higher. But, if you have bad audio, immediately people are like, "Ah, I can't understand. I'm going to move on." And if you're on short form, you're gone in a second. Clear audio is vital. And the first thing you should do is get the microphone closer to your face. And the cheapest way to do that is to buy an off-the-shelf one that plugs in and just hold it in front of your face. Maybe you want to get a fancy wireless one later. Maybe you want to get a proper boom mic later or something like that. But, the first thing you should do is upgrade your microphone. Any lingonberry asks, "Do you think thumbnails matter as much as people say?" 100% Thumbnails on YouTube matter so much. The packaging of a video, for whichever platform you're on, matters so much. I hate that the packaging is important. I would much, much rather be doing a '90s television magazine show with a half-hour running length and four or five sections in there. And maybe the third section isn't something people would generally choose to watch, but but they're already watching the show now. And I really dislike that every single thing has to be packaged like this. But time after time after time, it is proven that the thumbnail and the packaging is really important. That said, if your thumbnail is a lie, think about what audience that's going to attract and whether they actually are the audience you want. I'm kind of old school in this that I think the thumbnail should be true. YouTube's AI features in their studio will now generate new thumbnails for you. If you're a YouTube creator and you go to that little AI icon and you say generate some thumbnails for our most recent video, it'll do it. Just as ideas, I don't really actually want you to use them. As I record this, my most recent video was filming in a a candy factory, a sweet shop, a rock shop for the British people watching. And there's some elements in there. There's there's some sugar being pulled out like molten sugar flowing out of a cauldron. And there's me in there dressed up in factory gear. And what it generated was this giant cauldron with enormous amounts of bubbling candy coming out of it. And it it generated this this shot of me just kind of recoiling back from it in terror with a an uncanny valley version of my face. And yes, it's a very good thumbnail. It would have attracted people to the video if I'd have like photographed myself for it, took it out of the uncanny valley. But it's a lie. That didn't happen. That's okay for some audiences, I guess. I make factual content, so I want it to be real. The kettle wasn't that big. I wasn't recoiling in fear. I was holding the camera. I wasn't in that shot. So, yeah, I I could have put that up and a lot of my audience would have been angry at me first for using generative AI and second for lying. And a load of kids would have come along who aren't really going to like the video in the end. It's It's not who I'm pitching my video at. So, sure, I could have got more views with it, but it wouldn't have been the people who the video was aimed at. They wouldn't have stuck around. So, yes, thumbnails matter an enormous amount, but they've got to also match your audience. I also now hate that I have to generate three titles and three thumbnails for each video, and YouTube will automatically A/B/C test them. And and if none of them work, maybe I need to change them up again. It It's constant work. I do miss just uploading a video. Sarah Mem asks, "How far in advance do you plan content? Do you prefer to lock it down or be a bit flexible?" It's going to be different for everyone. For me, I >> [laughter] >> I used to have weeks in advance, but when I was I was making stuff in sort of 2018, 2019. I was making videos that now I really don't like all that much. My old format, the the one that ended in in 2023. I look at them and I'm like, "Man, why why did people watch these? They're They're short and they're scripted and they're kind of stilted." But it meant like 2018, 2019, I had like eight weeks of videos in the buffer, already scheduled, ready to go. It was great. And then COVID hit and I used up all that buffer and it never really recovered. Like maybe I'd get up to two weeks and that that was always a a bit nerve-racking. For the new series, for the stuff I started in 2026, I recorded 41 videos in advance on a single eight-week road trip. And they're all longer and they're I think they're the best things I've ever done, but they are so good because they were able to be made as one continuous block. And I can put references in video one that will pay off in video 23 or 36. The flip side of that is that I can't be flexible. If it turns out that something I filmed a months ago actually has a disaster like touch wood it's not going to happen, but I have to work out how I'm going to deal with that, how I'm going to change a video that already has references from months ago. Please try and have a buffer. Like if you want to avoid burnout, please please please try and have some buffer. A Quora user asks, "What is a good traffic source?" Okay, this is a little inside baseball and the answer is first of all, a good traffic source is going to differ for each creator, but generally you want a good mix. YouTube's advice is to have three types of content, hub, hero, and help. Hub is your episodic, your your regular content that is just going out like this this building up the audience slowly over time so that when someone comes in and sees you, there's also a load of regular stuff there and they can they can watch that, too. That is your hub. Then you've got your hero. That's that big splashy stuff that draws in people that that goes viral that makes big waves, gets shared around, gets new audience in. And then you have your help. That's the stuff that people search for. They're looking for help on this thing now. They type in the keywords so type in the keywords and they find you there. If you have all three of those, you're going to get a mix of traffic sources and that is hopefully what's going to propel you forward. Okay Rub asks, "How important are the first 10 to 15 seconds of a video to the algorithm?" Very important, but not for the reason you'd expect. I was lucky enough while back to have a chat with the guy in charge of the YouTube algorithm. Head of product recommendations his his name is Todd and I cannot remember his last name. So let's Todd Todd algorithm. And he said this publicly, I'm not breaching any confidences or NDAs here. In any sentence where you use the word algorithm, replace it with the word audience. That's what YouTube is is trying to do and it's generally what the other platforms are trying to do as well. In any sentence, just replace algorithm with audience. They want to be this transparent glass layer that means that every single video you're recommended is something you'd want to watch. How important are the first 10 to 15 seconds of a video to the audience? Really really important because after 10-15 seconds, if they look at that and go, "Oh, that's fine." They are going to judge a book by its cover and the title, the thumbnail, the first 10 to 15 seconds are that cover and the algorithm will just reflect what the audience is doing. Ecstatic asks, "What is a realistic amount of time to wait to know whether a video is going to take off or not?" Depends on the platform. If it's for YouTube, you'll know pretty quickly. It's unusual for something to go slow for a while and then suddenly take off. If it's not taking off, you repackage it. You change the title, the thumbnail, you try again, you keep going. After a while you go, "Okay, well, that was not a winner." That happens. For other platforms, the stories I've heard from people who use Instagram and TikTok and publish there, uh YouTube Shorts in particular, it's completely random. It's the whims of some black box algorithm and it really feels like it's not reflecting the audience. It's just randomly sending down lightning bolts from God on high and going, "You, you shall you shall now have views." I don't know, but for YouTube, you'll probably know in a couple of hours. Pokey asks, "Should my YouTube videos have an intro or is it just a waste of time?" Depends on the intro. The best ever introductions were the ones from Top Gear. Tonight, Sazor does this. So, if you're just setting up expectations, great. Do it. Because one of the most powerful editing techniques, and you can see people do this if you know what you're looking for, is never conclude a question until the next one is set up. So, at the start of the show, your intro, you set up expectation A and B. You resolve B, but before you do that, you set up C. Before you resolve C, you set up D. And then at the end, you resolve D and A. That is a really powerful technique if you're subtle about it. You can see so many [laughter] YouTube videos that really are Oh, but you won't believe what happened when we did that. Like, be subtle. Be subtle. On the other hand, if your introduction is 10 seconds of 3D animation with dubstep over it and your channel name, drop it. You are not Prestige Television, and even Prestige Television has a skip intro button for a reason. A Reddit user asks, "Is clickbait in your title and thumbnail worth it?" I would direct you to Veritasium's excellent video on this, where he describes it not as clickbait, but as curiosity-bait. If you are lying in the title and thumbnail, absolutely not. It'll get you the views for a little while, they'll realize that you are a liar, and they won't come back. But, part of the game, part of getting your stuff out in the world is packaging it in the way that the medium requires. Back when DVRs and TiVo came along in the I think late '90s, that feels about right, the titles of shows got shorter and simpler. You ended up with things like Storage Wars and Ancient Aliens. In part, those titles, those short titles, rather than the more abstract titles that came before, because they needed to fit in the slot on a DVR guide. They needed to fit when you're clicking through on your television, on your channels, to just see two words, cuz that's all the room you've got. This is exactly the same thing. You have to package your content to fit the medium. Just don't lie about it. That advice asks, is it true that the more content you put out the better for audience growth and retention? The more good content you put out the better. If you're just sending out stuff and you don't care about it and no one cares about it, the audience isn't going to care about it, either. What you want is something summed up by the word ikigai. Concept from Japanese, which is what you love, what you are good at, what the world needs, and what you can be paid for. The stuff that took off for me had all those four things. The format that I finally found, it was something that I was interested in and that I really did enjoy doing. It was something I'd like to think I was good at, that I could do. It was something that the world was interested in and watched, and it was something I could get paid for. Like, how many people are lucky enough to have all those four things? If you can find that, when you find that, put out as much of it as you can. If you're not interested in what you're putting out, if you're just doing it to tick a box, then I think the audience will notice. A Quora user asks, I want to change my YouTube niche without losing my old audience. How can I do it? You can't. That's the bad news. Even uh for me, like the the new stuff that I'm making that is a continuation of my old content, but longer, slightly different format, like viewing numbers are down a bit. Intellectually, rationally, I am fine with that, cuz I know from the statistics, people are watching for much longer. They're sticking around. And the feedback I'm getting is is these are really good, but I am going to lose some of the old audience who don't like this. Now, if you can make it like this where where it's a combination of novelty and familiarity. That's what you want in a new series. If you're changing niche, try and make it have a connection to the other so you can bring more people over. But ultimately, if you're changing niche, even if you're just changing a bit of the format, some people are not going to stick around. That sucks. It is still a stab in the heart every single time I open up YouTube Studio and the new thing is getting lower view count. Don't think of it as losing the old audience. Think of it as starting from scratch with extra bonuses and new stuff coming in. You have such a start compared to everyone who really is starting from zero. Subscribers are a useless metric. They were great when YouTube started. Controversial opinion, YouTube should take away the subscriber count. Like they're never going to do it. Like there's too much cultural cache in it, but it's a useless figure. They should replace it with watch time hours, which is a number that only ever goes up. It's fair to both short form and long form, but but they'll never do it. But subscribers is meaningless because it just means someone clicked a button at one time and now they're not interested anymore. Like don't worry about those numbers. If you are starting in a completely new niche, maybe start a new channel. Puzzle Headed asks, "What have you learned from brand deals?" A brand deal these days for YouTube is one of those ads that is incorporated into the video. It's called a host read or a host read advert. For Instagram, it may be an entire short form video that is dedicated to a product. But what I've learned is that everyone draws the line of what is an acceptable brand deal, of what what is selling out just below what they're doing. So, for me, I take some brand deals. I will never take one from a gambling company. I will never take one from some mobile app that uses loot boxes and and gotcha mechanics just kind of grab huge amounts of money through addiction mechanics. I won't do that. I don't think those are acceptable, but there are loads of folks who do and they will all go, "Oh, yeah, sure, I take those, but I don't take whatever the next thing down is." And equally, there are people who are going to be looking down on me because they are very proud to never take or have to take those brand deals. The reason why everyone takes them is the money, obviously, but a brand deal on YouTube will get you as a rule of thumb, as a very vague guideline, about 10 times what you would get from just the YouTube ad revenue that comes in. And I certainly couldn't resist that. And these days it is so accepted that when an up-and-coming creator gets their first brand deal, you will see comments that like, "Oh my god, congratulations, you got a sponsor." Like, get the bag. Roberto Blake asks, "What skills do you personally need to practice as a content creator in order for you to improve further?" Make stuff. Just Just make stuff. This It's as simple as that. Every skill, every single thing is improved by actually making things. There are so many people who spend so much time just just worrying about every detail, worrying, "Oh, I I can't make this now cuz this is not Just Just make stuff and every other skill will follow from there. Simply here for now asks, "What more can I do to push my content out to the algorithm or do I just have to wait?" What more can you do to push your content out to the audience other than repackaging it, trying different titles and things like that? I mean, don't spam people. Don't go wildly and post it because that's a way to get people really angry at you, but it is, like many things, about who you know, not what you know. If you can collaborate with people, even if that's not in person, even if that's not actually on video, if you can make those connections to other people, then that's more powerful than anything else. There is the method of of doing a forced collaboration where you just take someone else's content and make a video Like, the number of people who make a video about Mr. Beast because that will get Mr. Beast's fans to click on their video. Cool. Are they going to be interested in your video or are they going to be interested in just something about the person they like? They're not going to come back. All you've done is taken a little bit of someone else's audience who are then not going to like what you do next. A Quora user asks, "How do you find your niche online?" You try as many as possible and you see what you like and you enjoy and you see what the audience responds to. But that question feels like it comes from someone who wants to be an influencer, a creator, a YouTuber, a TikToker and and isn't sure why or what they want to do to get there. Like they they Yeah, absolutely. I want to I want to have a million subscribers. Cool. What about? It feels like someone who's like, "Yeah, I I want to be a rock star." Okay, great. Which instrument? What genre of music? Like if you don't have that passion for it, are you going to stick around and do that? So, try a lot of niches, try a lot of different things, try a lot of different instruments and see which one works for you. Beneficial list asks, "How do you deal with burnout when your heart is tired but you don't want to give up?" I'm not a therapist. I wish I knew. If you are just starting out or if you don't have many subscribers, you've been trying this for a long time and you're burned out and it's not working, maybe you stop. Maybe you do try something else. If it is your job and you have this schedule and and that's something I'll talk about later. Like if you have this schedule that you have to hit for a certain amount of time, yeah, you suck it up and you do it because it's your job and you figure out a way you to make it more sustainable as you go. I will note that this is from a subreddit that is not advice for YouTube. It's advice for Fansly, which is an adult platform. I know folks who make content for platforms like that and burnout is so difficult there because it is, by necessity, intimate. But even if you're making stuff for YouTube and for Instagram or for for anything that involves you as a person, the more you tear off pieces of your soul, the more you throw memories and personal stuff into the the fire of the engine, the more you do that often, the better the audience responds. And there are only so many pieces of your soul and so many memories that you can fuel the engine with. And if you can avoid becoming personal, if you can do this and still maintain a wall between you and the audience, even if it's a glass wall, even if there's there's just something there, that's going to help a lot. Doctor Mothman asks, "How do I be a creator without being a people-pleaser?" Bad news, you have to be. Sorry. I met someone the other day who who kind of plays the heel online, like lovely in person, but is kind of abrasive and aggressive with a personality, like actively seems to dislike the audience. But the audience like that, and he plays this character like like a wrestling heel. He's just the bad guy. But that's still pleasing the audience. Now, how close you bring the audience is a choice. I've always said I want viewers, not fans. I don't want people to be attached to me, I want people to be attached to the things I'm making and and to come back and and enjoy that. So, you can put a bit of a wall in there, but ultimately, part of the job is pleasing the audience, and there's no way around that. Lonely Lupine asks, "Are attention spans shortening or have short attention spans been hidden before?" I think we are getting used to taking in more data and more information faster. I'm now at the point where I'm watching most stuff that isn't like comedy or drama or something like that at two times speed. If it's scripted, I'm up to three times speed. If it's scripted and they talk slow, I might even get up to four times speed if it's just someone reading a monologue. And that that is the speed at which I take in information, because if you're reading and you're a fast reader, you can take in information that fast. I think that people are taking in more information now because there is so much of it, and we are adapting to do that. Is that a bad thing? Ask us in 100 years. Ask the descendants of this this year's social scientists and neurologists, they'll be able to tell you, but I couldn't tell you now. Noel asks, "How has your content evolved since you first started, and what lessons have you learned along the way?" I first started throwing stuff at the internet technically in the 20th century, I think, in that I was writing HTML for a GeoCities page. So, the answer is I just kept throwing ideas out there until one worked. And then once it did, that kept evolving. It's evolved beyond all recognition. I generally hate anything I've done in the past. There are only maybe a dozen videos from my like 10-year series that I'm really proud of and and would say, "Oh, yeah, I I'd do that." Like there's there's so many I'm like, "Oh, I could have done that better." Like, yes, do I need to see a therapist about that? Absolutely. A Quora user asks, "How do you know what content your audience likes?" They'll tell you. They will [laughter] tell you so much in comments, in messages, on whatever platform you're on, in emails, if you're old school like me. Like you will get so many messages, but whether you pay attention to them is up to you. Because, yes, the audience likes one thing, but maybe that's not what you want to do anymore. I've always made the analogy to being in a band. The audience would like four albums which are really identical to the one album they really like of yours, but are also new and novel and exciting at the same time. You have to manage those expectations. Accept that sometimes the audience is only going to sort of like what you put out, and and maybe that's okay. Maybe that gets rid of a few of the people who like the stuff you used to be doing in the past and brings in some people who are doing the stuff you want to do in the future. Trust Nobody asks, "Is the idea of being a full-time content creator over-glamorized and financially reckless?" For some people, yes. I met someone a few weeks ago, and apologies if you're watching this, who has just got 5,000 TikTok followers, and they were thinking of quitting their job and doing it full time. I tried to suggest politely because it was just someone I just met that maybe that wasn't a good idea. I will say that explicitly now in the hope that that not watching this it doesn't sound quite so rude. Don't do that. That's a really bad idea. Ideally, you have a jumping off point. I was very very lucky when I started that when my channel finally after 15 years, 15 years of throwing stuff at the internet, something finally worked out. I had kind of oh Okay, this this might be working. This might be going up the hill. That happened at about the time when I had a bit of savings and the place I was working at there were some red flags it was time to leave. So, I was lucky enough and that was luck to be in a position where I could jump ship when I needed to. Bear in mind that I had that cuz I had a bit of savings. I had a bit of time. There are so many people out there who don't have that luck or they're holding down three jobs and they have two kids. If you have spare time, you are in such a better position. If you have spare time and spare money, congratulations. You've already won the jackpot. It is financially reckless to jump out of a job that you need because there might be something coming in in future. That is massively unfair, but unfortunately, capitalism. Bellinelli asks, "How much time do you spend now on content creation?" Too much. Everyone's answer to that is too much. Never have a hobby that turns into a job. You know, find a job you love and you'll spend your entire life doing it. It's infuriating. I'm still working full time on this because because of course because I can do because I'm passionate about it and I want to make it work. If you can get work-life balance, please do. Tell me how to do it. BBLL asks, "What happens to influencers and content creators once they are no longer at their peak or become less relevant?" Which I will note is from the subreddit LA Influencer Snark. So, I get the feeling there's there's a bit of cynicism behind this question. The answer is the same as for a TV presenter or a band or anything like that. If they had a couple of hits and then nothing else, they'll get a nice little trail of royalties in, maybe money from old views and things like that, but probably not much else. They'll they'll go and find a job somewhere else. And maybe, if they're lucky, they'll have an audience that remember them. Michael Underwood is a kids TV presenter who I was slightly too late for him. I think he was presenting shows where I was sort of in college. He's had some shows, kids remember him, but he's a teacher now. And he's on TikTok recently just answering questions from folks who are now like in the 20s and 30s going, "Oh yeah, I remember you off the TV. How's it going?" And he's really happy. He's teaching kids. He's he's reaching an audience. And occasionally they'll pop on TikTok and say, "Oh yeah, I remember you." And occasionally in real life you'll go, "Oh yeah, I remember you. I I've I've got good memories of you. Thanks for making my childhood better." What a wonderful thing to have. Again, like starting from zero, don't frame it as a loss. You have this gift, this bonus, you have this chapter in your life that was wonderful and you still hopefully have good memories of and get good things from. Pop culture is ephemeral. Relevancy is ephemeral. There is always a peak and there is always a come down after. And the come down sucks. But what a joy to be able to say, "I did that." And there are still some good ripple effects that come from it. That is all the questions for today. Uh I hope you learned something. Please go and watch my videos as well. That's that's why I'm here.
