nk is so exciting because you can build adjacent to creators. And uh I do believe that there are so many ideas out there that haven't been done. M um you just have to really invest time into it. Yeah. >> Yeah. Identify and innovate. That that's that's a really interesting way to put it. And I wanted to break down this video where um you made a video called how long can you secretly live in a grocery store? >> And I'm wondering if you could talk about the inspiration that led to it. Like what did you identify that was working on YouTube and how did you innovate on that? the these are so fun to like work through because it's like it's so it's funny talking about it because I I would never think that any of this would make the light of day ever. Uh but this is yeah this is like I mean this is days worth of work basically backing an idea when we're making a new format we're gambling you know this is this is this is previous air act 2022 2023 is gambling every single week I have no idea what's going to work I'm reinventing the wheel every single week >> but there is a smart way to do it which is like this so basically how long could you secretly live in a grocery store it's a brand new idea um it's never been done this way for the pieces of inspiration are a combination of things. So, we see this like there's like this stealth camping trend that's like nobody's really talking about, but there's a dude who stealth camps in roundabouts. He stealth camps in like sewers. He stealth camps all over the place. He's the coolest guy. By the way, I'm subscribed to this guy. I forget his name at the moment, but he's awesome. >> What is stealth camping? Just so people >> stealth Oh, yeah. The idea of stealth camping is that you set up a camp in a place that you're technically not supposed to or a place you wouldn't normally do. like a freaking roundabout. >> Yeah. And you're doing you're doing hardcore survival but in a place that you would never expect like a roundabout. Like in the bushes in a roundabout or uh uh under a under a in in the sewers like under a great you know what I mean? Like this dude's secretly camping in public urban spaces basically. Um it's like he's in the middle of the woods. He's surviving like he's in the middle of the woods but he's in the middle of a city. Amazing. These videos are so entertaining to watch. You watch a guy who's amazing at what he does does do what he does best for 20 minutes straight. So awesome. Then you have uh food theory. They made a video four years ago which was how long could you secretly be locked in a grocery store? And so they go through the theory of this like breaking it down like how many meals could you make out of all the food in the grocery store if you were stuck there for like a zombie apocalypse. Um they're basically proving out concept. They're not doing any challenge, anything. They're just talking about the idea. That video gets 21 million views by itself. Just talking about the theory of living in a grocery store. Jim makes a video called $10,000 every day you could survive in a grocery store. I'm pretty sure one of his split tests of his thumbnail on this video is literally the MattPat thumbnail, but Jimmy's face on it. I think because Jim took heavy inspiration from food theory on this. >> Yeah. >> We take these three data points. We say, "Hey, what's the air act version of this?" That ends up being, "How long could you secretly live in a grocery store?" And so, yeah, this is uh this is I think that and and now, yes, we're gambling. We don't know if the audience is going to like it. This video has 17 million views now. I remember, you know, we're talking about it internally, and we didn't know what was going to happen. Like, this could easily be a 10 out of 10. But if it's a 10 out of 10, I'm okay with that because we took so much time in prepping the idea. >> If the audience doesn't like it, that's okay. and we'll move on to the next idea that we did the exact same thing with. And I think that's the smart way to approach YouTube. >> Eric, we also analyzed your past 20 30 videos and I thought it was fascinating how like they could fall into very clear buckets and series. And I'm wondering when you're thinking about the initial idea, how much does can you turn it into a series factor into your decision to do it or not? >> The one of the rules that we have is if it doesn't have a follow-up, we're not making it. We're not going to make a video if it doesn't have a natural follow-up. It's not going to happen. It could be a video that's going to get a 100 million views. I'm not going to make it. Making new videos every single week. I've done it. And you have to rebuild a from scratch and reinvent the wheel every single week. You're purposefully living on hard mode. And I'm I'm saying it like that because I've done it myself. Like this is I did this for years. And um something when we were sort of reinventing the channel we looked back on was there was a few different series that were like really successful. Um but I never was thinking in how do I do more of these? I was just thinking that's awesome that there's follow-ups. All right, go on to the next video. Like I wasn't thinking dependently on series. But >> I think good ideas are marked by this. Good ideas are marked by there's more content in there than you can make with one video. Um, like right now our buckets that we're currently doing, there's more that we haven't launched yet, but >> we just dropped our new apparel for created. I'm talking about new sweatshirts, hoodies, ball caps, and more. And when we were putting together our merch, we went all over the world to find the highest quality fabrics, the coziest material, the most vibrant colors. And we knew that we needed the perfect domain name to match all that. And it came together thanks to today's sponsor, Dosstore Domains. because we weren't going to go with some random or lengthy.com link that nobody could remember. Instead, we wanted something that said this is our store. So, naturally, we went with created.store. And we're not alone. From Mr. Beast.store to speed.store to sticks. Who we just interviewed to dude perfect.store. After all, your name followed by a do.tore at the end is clean, clear, and full of yours. It's easy to share, easy to remember, and easy to trust. And best of all, a website with a store domain often drives 2x higher visibility because the word store is literally in the link, which leads to more clicks and sales, just like we've seen with our created apparel line. So, if you're a creator selling online or even just planning to or thinking about it, then get your branded.store link before somebody else does by going to this link below. Just do it and do it with the domain that just makes sense. Domain. So, thank you guys again for sponsoring. And now back to the video. >> Our buckets are like there's I secretly lived in um there's I hid in streams or content or YouTube videos or Tik Toks or whatever. >> There's uh instant karma. Uh so that's giving thieves uh cheaters instant karma. >> Yeah, you scam scammers. >> Scam scammers. >> Yeah. >> Um and there's a bunch more buckets that are rolling out that exist. But >> why does my mind want to say you've been god on get got? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, there's there's some good gets coming to the channel right now. Yeah. But yeah, like uh pranks is another one. Like we've been really successful on a series of pranks. >> Um >> and then the cool thing about these is if they're really good ideas, they branch into additional concepts. So like it's like breeding horses where like >> so we have I secretly hid in uh Kaisenet's live stream and then we have I secretly lived in a grocery store. Now we cross those two together and you get I secretly lived in Kaisen's house, right? And now it's a mix of these two ideas that both have proof to work. And now instead of taking bets that are like 87% likely to work, you're taking like 9
