t minutes and now YouTube rewards hourong videos, right? Like this is what I'm saying. The platform is so agile and you have to optimize your operation and your channel to be agile because it can change so fast. >> What about your intros? Like I feel like those have changed a lot. I actually pulled up a few of them here and I'm curious like if you could break down like yeah what what's going on in this one. >> Oh yeah, this is a good one. Over the past three months, I've tracked down four real life scammers. And today, using some ingenious methods, I'm going to be giving them a little taste of their own medicine. >> Take the money. >> What the going on? >> I just feel it. I feel it. >> You are about to meet God. >> Yeah. Um, you know, I got in a heated discussion like six months ago with another YouTuber and they basically said, "Every month we talk about intros and thumbnails and every month we come to the realization that they're more important than we thought they were last month and we've been doing that for a year." And I was like, "That's really interesting. Tell me about that." And it's just you've heard it a million times, but if you really think about it, like dude, YouTube has done what we asked. They've g given us so much mobility with YouTube editor, with AB split testing, with title split testing. There's no there's a reason that those are there. And if you're not taking them seriously, you're handicapping yourself. Because I always think about life as it's like there's a thousand parallel universes you're living in and they're all half a percent different. >> And you have an opportunity with YouTube to live in pretty close to the most optimal reality because we can split test into infinity. We can split we can work on our intros over and over and over. We can run them by a million people. You can use YouTube better to cut stuff out if you want to. Yeah, like the first 30 seconds of a video and like I'm telling you really smart people, really smart YouTube people are meeting in a room every month and the only conclusion they come to is that the title and the intro are more important than they thought they were last month over and over and over and over again. So, I've tried to keep the intros a lot tighter than I used to. >> Uh, I try to really work on making them res representative of the content. I think that's so important. And for both title and thumbnail, I think it's like, does this feel like an ARAC video? Again, if I'm going to do a thumbnail, it needs to feel representative of brand. Crazy thing is about like working with brands and on YouTube and building a reputation on YouTube is people don't really watch your videos. Like they take your channel at face value. So like is this thumbnail representative of the brand? It's like >> this is important stuff to think about. >> Yeah. Specifically on intros, it is a video becomes exponentially less important every second that goes by in a video. Exponentially. So it's like the first one second of the video is the most important second of the entire video. It is the most important second of the entire video. And sometimes I've had this habit of thinking about it not very hard and I get so focused on the bits and making sure the content is good. By minute three or four of a video, if a viewer's already decided to watch, they're probably going to stay to the end. So it's like from minute from second number one to like second like two minutes in I think is the most important part of a video and then from there you've either earned or not earned the viewer. Yeah. >> Um everything else can get a little bit abstract past that point. But >> it is interesting the point about brand and perception because I do feel like a lot of brands like glance and look at the thumbnails, >> the channel header and maybe watch the intro. Y >> and so creators don't realize like that doesn't just help the retention, it helps their bottom line in some ways >> big time >> because these sponsors are are looking at that and they're just trying to show their boss they're making a good financial decision by giving you sponsorship money. Yeah. >> You know, and that is like their boss is like not even glancing, they're squinting, >> you know, and just like taking a look at So, it's interesting. I haven't heard too many creators like talk about that because it is a big perception play too, >> big time. Uh, I didn't realize it until like two years ago and I started getting on calls with brands that we wanted to partner with and they started saying like, "We have qualms with this video idea or like with these videos that you've made." >> And I'm like, "Did you watch the video?" Because the content is so different from what you think it is. >> And they're like, "Uh uh uh, you know, they haven't watched the videos." >> But >> your title and thumbnail, the brands are watching. They're not watching your videos. They don't care. Is your brand representative of their values? Yes or no? Yeah, that's how they decide. Yeah, >> I guess. Yeah, the takeaway is like some brands only read, they don't watch. >> That's right. >> Yeah, that's interesting. Um, what what does the team look like now? Like because you guys are putting out so much like content like so quickly, highly edited, highly produced, like like what's the makeup of the Ara team now? >> It's a lot smaller than it was. My values have like shifted a lot to like a small amount of great people, and that's the goal. Um, there's two people in creative, but there's a lot of that spiderwebing that goes out for finding new inspiration. Like, there's little feelers out everywhere looking for inspiration. >> Um, editing takes up the most amount of people, six people in person, two or three overseas. >> Production is like two or three people. >> And how big was it before? 20 plus something like that. Maybe 25. >> Wow. >> Yeah. At like peak people. >> And like obviously a big part of your channel back then was was Mac and him being an editor. What happened with you and Mac? >> Dude, Mac is a dog. Like it's hard to overvalue what he is capable of. Like you have to think that guy was with me living in a bunk bed in a basement editing videos in a garage for years and he would edit the videos for two days and then he would go out and shoot and be my cameraman and talent in the videos and then come back and then edit the video in two days and we did that for years. Um, it's like, dude, he he's he's on a different planet of work ethic, willingness to work. One of the most he might be the most creative person I know. I think it's similar to when we talk about the person that got me from zero to 100,000 or 100,000 to a million or a million to 10 million. The version of the team that got me there won't be the same either. And Mac and I are still very close. And I think that we will be friends for a long time, but there's a time and a place for two people and two collaborators to work together on something like we don't have to work together and be friends. We can do one or the other. They're not uh mutually exclusive, you know? And so, yeah, Mac's gone on to do amazing things. I'm so so so so so so proud of him. Like, he deserves everything that he's done and more. I'm so proud of everything he's done. Um, uh, and we've been through a lot of stuff together. Like, we've been through a ton. And, uh, yeah, it makes me emotional to think about him because he's done so much for me. Like, I wouldn't be here without him. Like, I would I would never ever ever ever ever have gotten this far if he didn't come in and help me. He and he believed in me when I had nothing. I had like 10,000 subscribers and Mac was there living on my couch making videos with me. And Mac is his own creative powerhouse, you know. And I think him and I have pretty different goals and we'll probably we'll we will support each other's goals forever. But there was a cool blip in time when our goal was the exact same thing. But I 
