formation between that Eric and this Eric has happened off camera. So, it's like weird to talk about it, but it's Yeah, it's just it's a that's a different human being, you know? >> Yeah. >> That is the version of me that got the channel to 10 million subscribers. That is the version of me that did it. You need a psychotic confidence that the impossible can happen. There's no way that what happened to me in my life getting to 10 million happens without that version of me. But the version of me that gets the channel to 100 million in a way that I'm proud of is a very different version of Eric. And that is what I have been working on for since that all went down. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, there's so much crap you have to go through to, you know, build a channel that, uh, you have to have that like delusional optimism. >> I want to just spend another second like talking about like that era of just for like that moment. I I felt like there was this chase to catch up to Mr. Beast, like everyone's labeling you as like the next Jimmy. And I'm wondering like did you feel like you leaned into that too much? Cuz this video that like I saw like I trapped 24 Tik Tockers in a box. I think you renamed it to I trapped celebrities in a box. You were playing a host. There was contestants. There was challenges. Do you feel like that was an ARAC video now looking back on it or was that you chasing Mr. Beast? >> It's an interesting mix like going back into my head of where I was at. I definitely think like I call it calculated gambling when you roll out like a new video or a new series that could have follow-ups. And for that one specifically, like at the time I don't think Jim was making any of those videos, but I think for me it's like how dynamic can the channel be? Like what are my absolute limits of making videos? Like what's the point at which people stop watching the videos and like I want to I want to find my absolute boundaries and and for me it's like those videos the motivation is more of uh testing my artistic abilities and testing my abilities to make what videos. Um, I think Jimmy actually made that video later with YouTubers, like the exact same video with the exact same title with YouTubers. So, I think in that video, I'm definitely chasing the trend of spectacle. >> At the time, that's what YouTube was. I think everybody's just chasing spectacle. But, you know, I think those videos are fun. Like, we were the first people to ever bring people into a house like that and tell a cohesive story with 15 terabytes of footage. And like, that video took a month with 15 editors to make that. It's just so huge and like had never been done before. I remember finishing it and we all looked at each other and we were like, "Bro, we just made something no one's ever seen before." And then we looked at the amount of footage and we realized that we were done for. And then we never made that series again because it was so painful to make the video. Uh yeah, but I think I think there was a moment in YouTube where it was like encouraged to incinerate money and I was not afraid to do it. Like I've said a million times like I'll I will succeed at YouTube or die trying. And like, so if >> if I have to at least find out if that's the correct thesis or not, I'm going to try. >> Yeah. >> How much did that video cost? Do you remember >> the uh Strangers Trapped in a Box videos? >> Bro, I got to a time when I was spending so much money on videos. It was so stupid. I think I spent probably 60K on that video each. >> Wow. >> Yeah. Uh, so it was probably 120 between. No, it was more. I mean, it's in the six figures. Every one of those videos is in the six figures total. Yeah. >> Wow. >> With staff cost and everything. Like there's the video budget and then there's all the cost that goes on top of the people that make the video. You know this. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> It's easily over six figures for every single one of those videos. >> Wow. >> Yeah. >> And at that point, are you like thinking about like the money or just like let's get to the next upload? Like >> I'm No, I'm not thinking about it because I'm optimizing for a singular goal, which is how fast can I get to 10 million subscribers. I'm not trying to build a sustainable machine. I'm trying to get to 10 million subscribers. This is my singular goal in life. I wake up every day. How do I get to 10 million subscribers? That's the only thing I'm trying to solve for. If I make money, great. If I lose money, great. I'm trying to get 10 million subscribers. I'll do whatever it takes to get there. Like, that's where my head was at at the time. Yeah. >> Um, take me into the humble era. Like, now, um, after the countdown, and also like it took a while for your channel to get back to where it was, like how are you thinking about that rebuilding phase, um, to make the comeback that you have? I think the slowdown of videos wasn't even it's not because of any like controversy or negativity. It's like genuinely I'm trying to take this feedback in understand it from a fundamental level and then build around it is is the goal, you know, >> and I had to change from that version of me to this version of me. Like there's so much that has to happen off camera to become the version that I'm proud of that the fans like that they that we're all on the same page about, you know. Um, and that took a lot like that took everything. And it's like behind the scenes is me doing a ton of work on myself, me doing a ton of work on the air machine. And I think fundamentally deciding what the brand is like what is the brand? What is the brand? Like if this isn't the brand, if I'm this far off from what I've uh created expectation around, I need to get back on to like what's the expectation and set it clearly, you know? And so, >> yeah, there was there's that this is a this is a metric ton of work that just goes in behind the scenes that'll never see the light of day. It's just me in a room by myself or with my friends solving problems and Yeah. I don't know. I could go into anything, but it's Yeah. >> Yeah. What What were some of those problems? What did that Arak machine look like in terms of overhauling it? Like did the team change like like take us behind the scenes. >> Yeah, there's a there's a few core things I would say. Number one is if you're making decisions in the headsp space of I'm trying to get to 10 million subscribers as fast as possible, you have this mindset of I'm going to hire people or bring on like team to help me get there. And this is my goal regardless of how of of help or whatever. And I think that whole thought process was so flawed and so shortsighted because the correct answer actually is I will only grow this channel as fast as I can find great people to help me get there. That's the right way to think about it. And I if you would have told me that then I would have told you I would have said horrible things to you. No, I'm just kid. I would I would have I would have said I would have said you're thinking too slow. I'm going to go move on. And yeah, I I would have never bought into that theology, but it's played out in my life so many times now. So >> wait, help me understand the difference because to get to 10 million subscri I know it's a vanity metric now on YouTube, but it's still growing the channel like >> simpler. To make it simpler, >> there's two ways to look at the channel or at a business or anything, which is like >> you set a goal and you just hire people to get there >> or you flip the whole thing on its head and it's I will set the goal based on my ability to build a great team. The the team decides like you can't you're setting uncontrollable goals or short-sighted goals. Yeah, you yeah, I can get to 10 million, but what happens after that? we can force our way to 10 million, but I built the wrong company to get there. Like I built the wrong YouTube channel getting to 10 million. That was what the feedback was. You know, i
