t's like >> we have to flip the whole thing on its head. And like I think a channel is a it's not me. It's a conglomeration of great people. >> And so I the thing between me and where I want to go on on YouTube is building the right team of people to help me get there. And that's really hard. That's uh that's building a recruiting business. That's uh learning about what makes a good person. That's what learning about like company culture. This is there's this is all things that I would have said were it was a distraction for me growing a YouTube channel, but they're fundamentally important for me to get to my goals. >> And to put this in context, how old are you now, Eric? >> 28. >> 28. >> Mhm. >> Um to hear you talk about all these things in the context of YouTube, which most YouTubers like don't even think about. Um, I think it's refreshing. And I'm also wondering, was it around the same time that you did the world's biggest pizza party? Yeah. Yeah. I was there. I just remember that that that was still in that spectacle. Let's do the world's biggest the world's largest, the world's f. So So take me through like cuz if the countdown was this moment of realization, what was the world's largest pizza party? Cuz that seemed like another version of like pushing the spectacle. Like I I I remember being at your world's largest pizza party and just >> I was like, how are they working this hard? Yeah. >> You know, and it's like I'm looking at the pizza, I'm looking at my watch, it's like 2 a.m. I think you guys are still going like putting sauce on things like >> um like what how did that moment fit into you know your journey in different like I think that was like one that's like one of the coolest things of all time. Uh but at what cost? Like I don't think many people were having fun doing that. I don't know how we did it. Looking back, I don't know how we did that. I don't I genuinely don't know how we did it. Uh the team at Pizza Hut was great, but you like at that time I remember we were doing weekly videos. We were planning for the Streamies and and creatively directing that for me to host and hosting. Yeah. >> And we're prepping for the world's largest pizza party, which is not just making the world's largest pizza, but it's also multiple pizza parties for the fans in different parts of the country all the exact same time. Um I think I had a lot of great people. Like I can't do it by myself. I have a lot of great people and there's a lot of different decisions I would have made with those people at the time. I probably wouldn't have said yes to all of that stuff, but when you're in a position of growth on the platform, a million shiny objects get thrown at you. And when YouTube is all you've ever dreamed of doing, you say yes to all of them. And again, if your mindset isn't in I can only do so as many projects as I find great people to help me do them. If your mindset is I'm going to say yes to the projects and figure the rest out later, you're already done for. And so yeah, we did I you know the pizza party stuff, the world's largest pizza. This is all stuff like I'll never forget it. Amazing. Like thank you to all the fans who came out of that and supported it. It was beautiful. Um but that was like the first thing where it's sort of I think I started learning a lot about what it means to build a team. Yeah. >> And that's so interesting to hear you talk about because that mindset is what is required to even get to 100,000 subscribers or a million. remember your like famous couch series way back in the day? Like you had to put $17,500 to buy Logan Paul's couches >> to go back to like surprise and visit him and make content out of that. And that's you saying yes to something and then figuring it out. >> But it sounds like it takes on a different meaning when you say yes to too many things and you're big and you have a lot of people working for you, a lot of expectations from the fans. The difference is I'm signing myself for something versus me signing a team of people up for something. And I can sign myself up for something because it benefits me and my face is on the channel. And I am a dog and I will do whatever it takes to succeed at the thing. But that doesn't mean that you should sign a bunch of other people up to do the same thing with you. like you find great people that can help you do these things, but inevitably signing them up for something that you didn't do the work to prepare for as a leader, what's going to h like we already know, we already know what happens at the end of this, you know what I mean? And so that's what I was doing at the time. And uh yeah, there's just a lot a lot to learn from it. >> Yeah. I mean, you you've also taught me a lot. I remember when we were um like filming at at Beast Games like and I saw your editors there. >> I'm like, Eric, wait, you brought your editors here? Yeah. Like it's you're talking about how it's an experience for them. So that that's a win. But then you know it's a win for the business because they're getting context what they're about to edit >> and that actually fundamentally changed like how we now run our team where I want my guys who are going to be editing >> shooting and seeing this or there's a big experience like I want them coming out for that as well. >> That's awesome. >> Um are there other little things you've learned? I mean, I I'll share another one that that also fundamentally changed how we edit because something you said like um I remember on these like big shoot days where you know we're doing behind the scenes for Jimmy and Beast Games. We're following like three people like five to six camera operators. Just a crazy day. I was asking you for advice cuz you know you go through these experiences so many cameras like so many people like hours of footage and you told me this thing I'll never forget. Um, you're like, "Every night after you end your shoot, record a voice note, just stream of consciousness and then go to Claude, which is this a AI app." >> Yeah. >> And you literally gave me this prompt like verbatim, like you texted it to me. Maybe I could put it on screen for anybody else to use if you're comfortable with that. Um, and that prompt takes your voice note or transcription of it, which is easy to get, and outputs is basically take my voice note and turn it into a scene by scene breakdown for my editor to edit my video. >> Yeah. >> And I did that every night of Yes. Yeah. We use that as like a paper edit. Um, just about every night. I mean, there's some nights I was just blureyed, but uh, just using that helped guide our post-prouction process. Yep. >> Any other little tricks like that or things you've learned like giving people experiences like helping with the post? I mean, they're just like little thing that keep like >> Yeah, there's so many little things like something that uh changed. Another big thing that we did to change the post room was uh I gave all the editors mics. Like a lot of editors I think use like AI voiceovers, which I don't think is representative of tone. So when I'm doing voiceovers, like I'll write voiceovers, but I'll usually start it off of inspiration from the editor. And so every editor at the studio has their own mic. They have their own camera on their desk. So like they're their own YouTuber. And so they actually rip >> like their editing desk. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's an editing desk and they have a camera at the top of the desk and they have a mic just like this at the desk like a nice mic. And as they're editing the footage, they're actually you'll go into the room and you'll hear them doing voiceovers as they're editing their sections >> to mimic your ultimate voiceover. >> Yeah. They don't they're not they're not mimicking my voice over. They're just they're doing storytelling. They're just me. If I was editing my own videos, which is like if I was editing my own videos, I'd be laying in voiceovers as I'm making the vide
