don't think it has to stay like that. I don't think it will stay like that. Um he's got some cool stuff coming and I'm really excited for it. Yeah. >> Yeah. I I mean one of the moments that made me emotional watching and I feel like is just tattooed on my brain in terms of like stuff I've seen >> you and Mac crossing the 1 million subscriber mark on your channel. Like you guys I think staked out on an island somewhere New Year's Eve just freaking out together. >> Um and and when I saw this like oh this is the dynamic duo of YouTube. They're they're going to be together forever. >> Yeah. Um, was there something looking back on it you could have done to keep Mac around or do you think it was inevitable that you guys were going to go down separate paths? >> I don't think my goal was ever to keep Mac. Like I think my goal was to for us to work together for as long as it made sense on the same project. And I think it's so important to like love and be friends with the people that you do these things with because doing them alone is lame and it's not fun. And uh our friendship has gone through ups and downs and there's so many things and from my side, I'm not going to speak for him, but on my side that I wish I would have done differently over time. Um but at the end of the day, there's a lot of stuff that has happened that only him and I will ever have the mutual human experience of going through together. And that will that bonds us forever. Uh I think to answer your question, there's a million things I could have done differently or I wish I would have done, but that's the same thing you have with any good friend. You know, like uh relationships aren't always perfect, especially when you mix business, especially when you mix one of the fastest growing YouTube channels on planet Earth. Uh it's hard. It's really, really, really hard to do YouTube with your friends, especially when you're both on camera together. Yeah, I asked that because I think if you trace back anybody's journey, like behind every crazy creator is a super supportive partner, spouse, an editor, like videographer, somebody who grinds with them. Um, and I'm wondering is is there things that if it was not doing it forever, but like things like you mentioned you could have done differently to maybe like keep that ride going a little bit longer or or or keep good people around because I think it's like YouTube gets emotional and and and there's like decisions that, you know, in hindsight I've made or things I've said that was like, oh wow, that's definitely in the heat of the moment and um, you know, it would have been great to keep working with that person. H I think if I were giving advice to creators out there for um retaining great people, my advice would be to show appreciation more than you think you have to. If you're the creator, you're the only person getting praise. By the way, if you didn't realize it, you get all the comments. You get all the views. It's all attached to your face. They don't get any of the glory for all the hard work that they put into making your thing. So, you're the most important person to appreciate them. >> Um, >> what forms does that appreciation take? Like that there's like is it more on camera time so people know them and all the hard work they put in? Is it money and like helping compensate? Like what what what do you feel like are some of those things that >> Everybody's different. Everybody has different values. I think if you can understand the person really well and what they value the most, uh I think you can that will help you do a much better job. So, if you don't know what your team values, I would figure it out quickly >> and what that individual >> exactly what each person values and how to do a great job for them. >> If you don't think that that's your job as a YouTuber, you already lost. That is your job. It is your job as the leader of the channel. >> Um, I think as much as you can incentivize the team as possible, reasonably, this is also your job. I think there's a lot of stuff that I overlooked where I had huge upside from their work but didn't necessarily include them in all of the upside. And I think it's important to include really great people in the upside of the channel. >> There's all kinds of ways to do that. Whether that's money, whether that's experiences, whether that's time off, there's all kinds of equity. There's all kinds of important ways to incentivize a team. Um, and if you want to do it for the long run, don't expect somebody to stay just for money. It's just not the key. Uh, and I would say for important people, you can never underestimate the value of your relationship with them. People usually sign up for a YouTube channel because they respect, love, appreciate the person at the helm of it. And um it's unrealistic to expect somebody to continue to be excited about the channel if there's an inverse relationship to the amount of time where you spend with them at the beginning to the time you spend with them as the channel grows. Um I think it's really important >> like inerson time with them. >> Yeah. Yeah. Like personally spending time with them. Yeah. Outside of the videos, outside of the filming, outside of the everything is really important. Yeah. >> I think it's much harder to do that when you have a big team like you did before. Exactly. It's super hard. And so the leaner you can keep the team, the more time you'll have to uh to spend with people and the more money you'll have to incentivize them >> and the more experiences you can include them on. >> And uh I think that's your job as a YouTuber. By the way, that wasn't the job of a YouTuber 10 years ago. 10 years ago, daily vlogging, you can do it by yourself. You might be able to edit it yourself. that's not this version of YouTube. And I think I was confused on that for a long time. >> Yeah. What inspired you to start the countdown series? Because you were already like doing so much and now here's a series where you're promising 30 videos in 30 days, 30 spectacles. Like >> why start that series and maybe give some context about what it was for people who may not remember. >> Yeah. So we did it was basically a series of videos. It was 30 videos in 30 days. Um, yeah. And this is this is where it's like there's no playbook to YouTube, right? And I'm trying to find my absolute what am I capable of, you know? Uh, what works, what doesn't, I don't know. And I think well, so I had a vlog channel at the time, which was also Eric and I posted a vlog every single day for 30 days, which was so fun because at the time I'm competing at Spectacle. I get to post like one time a month. And then my buddy Doha starts living with me and he's like, "Dude, we should daily vlog on an iPhone." And I'm like, "That sounds fun because I got into this to film videos." Like, >> I feel like I I posted 13 videos that year. And I'm like, "What if we made it up and we posted 30 videos all at the same time?" Uh, and we gave the audience like the content that we dred them from the for the entire year. And we had so much fun vlogging. And the vlogging was so successful, we were like, let's what if we what if we added more production value into these and actually thought about it. Like I wasn't even thinking about the vlogs. And so, um, yeah, I think we just adopted vlog but bigger and can we attach a bigger goal to it? Um, can we make this more exciting for the platform? And I think I remember specifically going into that and I was just thinking about uploading 13 videos that year and I'm like there's no way like if we're going to do YouTube, we're going to try this hard. I want to at least give myself a chance at being like creator of the year. Like, is there a chance that what I'm doing this year could get me into a position to be creator of the year? If no, I'm never going to find out what I'm capable of. And so, it comes from a little bit of success over here, a big question over here. I
