 want to find out what my absolute abilities are. And so, yeah, you know, we um we basically start producing 30 videos for 30 separate days. and we start the series going live when I'm halfway done. So, I'm halfway done filming the first half of the videos. We proceed filming the series as like I'm uploading on my phone at 8:00 in the morning and then I'm stepping on to the next video I'm shooting. And so, we gave ourselves like a 15 day buffer. Maybe it was more than that. Uh for some of the videos, they were shot further out. Um Yeah. And we freaking ripped videos every single day for 30 days. >> Yeah. when you were uploading. I mean, doing 30 videos in 30 days is hard enough. Doing 30 spectacles in 30 days is even harder. >> Managing like the emotional toll that comes with the videos that were made about you. >> And to give context to folks about the response and the criticism about your countdown series, you know, you said in your launch video that you'd be doing 30 videos in 30 days and then a lot of folks claimed that 13 episodes of the series were filmed in advance. Uh you said you would go around the world, but seven of the videos or so were in LA where you lived. Um and a lot of the things may have been faked or fabricated uh allegedly. Did you think that going into it people would find this out? Cuz like some of these creators did a ton of sleuththing looking at like your date on the watch and realizing that wait that was filmed in September when the series came out in December. Um or was it you just trying to keep the content hamster wheel going at all costs? Yeah, like I completely I'm so empathetic of like Yeah, duh. Like you have to be more clear like I need to there needs to be a sentence there of like hey guys I have a head start. I film these as a head. I wasn't I'm not you know I'm I'm see my watch on my arm. I'm not like trying to hide it. Uh >> I Yeah, I think I just thought that I could film it chronologically with a head start and the audience would be okay with that. >> Yeah. But I think when you get so deep in the sauce, you know what I mean? And you're trying to do something that's never really been done before, uh, you're set up to make mistakes, you know? And, uh, the thing about YouTube is that, like I said, there is no playbook to the platform. And if you're trying to stretch the absolute limits, you're going to mess up. And I'm only appreciative on those videos for giving me feedback. Like I a lot of these guys that made videos about me, I don't think they would know as much as they knew about me if they weren't fans of the channel currently or at some point. And so I think the perspective is like these are people who care about the brand and they're like giving you real feedback. And I think you can either be in denial about the feedback or you can take the feedback and make better videos. And um >> yeah, that's my goal. I just want to make better videos. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's funny because I remember making the series and it's the hardest I've ever worked in my life. That's the hard part for me is it's I me and my friends and my employees have never worked harder ever on anything I've ever made. And it being received negatively was hard. Like that was something that was tough for me. But at the end of the day, I say this all the time to everybody that I work with, the audience. We make the videos for the audience. You make every decision you make about making anything with the audience in mind. And I think I'm I was completely off track with like not making something the audience wanted. I'm making something I'm selfishly passionate about and I'm structuring it in an abstract way. Um, which is so it's just the antithesis of everything I know and everything I'm passionate about about YouTube. But I think this is a version of me who was stuck making spectacle videos once a month and I just want to make stuff and I don't have great counsel around me and I'm just doing what I know best to be the next move, you know? >> Yeah. And I I think it's hard to empathize with that. Like I I I won't even pretend to understand what it's like uploading that level of videos for 30 days, but you know, I had this 45day shoot with Jimmy, you know, filming this docu series for Beast Games. You and I spent probably, >> can I say we you were on set? Like we but you were there for like a week, two weeks. You were filming a series of videos coming in and out. And I will say it is very exhausting going from film mode to manager mode or respond mode. And so like that that gave me just a little bit more like understanding of what that's like. Um, >> I'm also wondering like do you feel like that some of the backlash was harder because you were kind of the guy who said you don't fake stuff because if if we're being like >> fair like Hollywood YouTube like things get >> filmed in advance all the time. Yeah. >> Like that that's just like part of the industry or things can get fabricated in the edit. Like do you feel like there's a subtext here of like Eric is the guy who doesn't fake stuff and that's why um things kind of >> fell down harder. >> Yeah, I think it's half me having a huge enormous borderline indestructible ego at the time. >> Yeah. >> Uh I felt like I could do anything. I had I had only ever taken big risks and been rewarded for them, >> right? >> What am I what what what's the worst thing that could happen? Like I'm gonna go film this thing and I can do anything creatively I want to do and what's going to happen? You know what I mean? Like if you put yourself in my shoes, you're this kid who lives in Georgia who loves and loves YouTube so much and you're such a big fan of everybody. And within the span of 24 to 36 months, you become best friends with all the biggest YouTubers in the world who you once looked up to. You've only grown, you broke every record in growth. Every idea you ever have works, you know what I mean? Where does your head go? like your ego is just so big. And I think the way I talked about the brand and like the way I'm like calling people out and I'm like saying these things, it's like I look back and I'm like even if I'm right about everything that I'm saying, there's no reason to have an ego about it. You know what I mean? Like there's no version of me that is successful that is better because I have an ego, you know? And uh we call it the humble era now. like me and my boys call it the humble era and it's like Arax in his humble era and it's genuinely you know either the world will humb humble you or you'll humble yourself and uh like I said the feedback I've gotten from that like I guess a year or two ago now was only helpful for me to become a better version of myself outside of YouTube and everything like that a better uh manager >> for the people around me um and a better YouTuber it's only helpful and I'm so appreciative and I've been shaped and like molded, you know what I mean? And like, you know, when you meet people, you know the difference between somebody who's never gone through anything hard and somebody who's been through some [ __ ] >> and I think that experience, I look back and I'm just grateful that the fans are still here and the fans gave me as harsh a feedback as they did. And uh I'm only grateful. I look back with it with extreme gratitude because if I just kept going the way that I was going with such a huge ego and a belief that I could do anything and it would work, um I think it would have been a lot worse. >> You know what I mean? Uh it's it's a necessary part of the process. And it's almost like again I thought me and my boys go coming up on YouTube thought that our job was to tell the best stories on YouTube. But if you pull that thread too far, you end up on some really slippery territory, you know? Uh yeah, it's it's it's just cringe. It's like it makes me cringe because of it's like there's no reason to have that ego, you know? It's and yeah, it's just tough. So much of the trans
