                                                                     INSIGHTi

FY2025 NDAA: Selective Service Registration
Proposals

Updated January 29, 2025

Background

In deliberations around a National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025 (FY2025 NDAA),
Congress considered changes to Selective Service registration and associated penalties for failure to
register (see Table 1). The Military Selective Service Act (MSSA: 50 U.S.C. §§3801 et seq.) provides
statutory authority for the federal government to maintain an independent Selective Service Agency
responsible for managing the Selective Service System (SSS) and for providing qualified civilian men for
induction into the U.S. Armed Forces if authorized by Congress and the President. Under the MSSA, all
male U.S. citizens and most male noncitizen residents of the United States between the ages of 18 and 26
are required to proactively register with the SSS under 50 U.S.C. §3802. Women are not required to
register. Knowingly or willfully failing to register may result in certain federal and state penalties
including fines, imprisonment, and ineligibility for federal employment or workforce programs.
Although the registration requirement remains in effect, the United States has had an all-volunteer force
since 1973 and Congress has not passed any legislation since then to reinstate the draft induction
authority. If Congress and the President were to reinstate the draft induction authority, some deferments
and exemptions, including religious exemptions, would apply under current law.

                          Congressional Research Service
                            https://crsreports.congress.gov
                                                          IN12450

CRS INSIGHT
Prepared for Members and

Committees of Congress
Congressional Research Service                                                                                       2

Table 1. Selected Selective Service Provisions in a FY2025 NDAA

                                          Senate-committee reported (S.

House-passed (H.R. 8070)                  4638)                                       Enacted P.L. 118-159)

Section 531 would have amended the        Sections 598A-D included similar            Not adopted.
MSSA to require automatic Selective       language to Section 531 of the House-
Service registration for "every male      passed bill. Section 598A would have        Not adopted.
citizen" and every male legal resident    required automatic Selective Service        Section 1108 adopts the House
subject to the registration               registration for "every citizen" (to        provision.
requirements. Automatic registration      include women) and every legal              Section 532 adopts the Senate
would not have applied to lawful non-     resident subject to the registration        provision.
immigrants.                               requirements and would not have
                                          applied to lawful non-immigrants. It
No similar provision.                     would have required such registration
                                          within 30 days (1) of the individual's
Section 1111 would remove federal         18th birthday, or (2) of learning that a
employment prohibitions on veterans       person is required to be registered.
who failed to register for the Selective
Service.                                  Section 598B would have removed
No similar provision.                     federal penalties for failure to register.

                                          Section 598C would have made
                                          technical and conforming amendments.

                                          Section 598D would have required
                                          these changes to go into effect two
                                          years after the date of enactment.

                                          529b would have exempted women
                                          from requirements to serve in certain
                                          combat roles, occupations, and units in
                                          the case of a draft.

                                          Section 522 is identical to Section
                                          1111 in the House-passed bill.

                                          599A would update the information
                                          that SSS is required to furnish to DOD
                                          under 50 U.S.C. §3813 with
                                          information including ``the full names,
                                          email addresses (if available), dates of
                                          birth, phone numbers (if available), and
                                          mailing addresses" of registrants.

Source: CRS analysis of legislation.

Action on Legislative Proposals

Adopted Provisions

Section 1108 of the enacted FY2025 NDAA adopts identical provisions in the House and Senate Armed
Services Committee (SASC)-reported bills (Sections 1111 and 522) that amend 5 U.S.C. §3328
specifically for military veterans who failed to register for the selective service and subsequently seek
federal civilian employment. The law requires Military veterans to provide "evidence of active duty
service" to the executive agency in which they are seeking employment. According to the SSS, certain
proof of active service may serve as evidence that the failure to register was not "knowing and willful."
Under current law (50 U.S.C. §3811(g)(2)), if an individual fails to register in the "absence of knowledge
and willfulness" they "may not be denied a right, privilege, or benefit under Federal law by reason of
Congressional Research Service  3

failure to present himself for and submit to registration." Amending 5 U.S.C. §3328 makes the exemption
for veterans more explicit in law and may reduce administrative burdens.

The enacted legislation also includes section 599A of the SASC-passed version of the bill, which expands
the registration information required to be collected by the SSS and reported to DOD for recruiting
purposes to include phone numbers and email addresses (if available).

Provisions Not Enacted

The House and SASC-passed versions included similar provisions that would have made Selective
Service registration automatic for certain citizens and legal residents, rather than requiring proactive
registration (Sections 531 and 598A, respectively). This legislation was proposed by the SSS as a way to
"improve the public's customer experience, [ ... ] enhance the equity of SSS registration nationwide and
better enable the Agency to fulfill its mission in support of Department of Defense (DOD) personnel
needs in the event of a national emergency." The SASC-passed version of the bill would have additionally
required automatic registration for "every citizen," thus expanding the registration requirement to women.
The enacted legislation does not include a provision for automatic registration, nor did it include a
requirement for women to register. In the event that women had been required to register and were subject
to a draft, Section 529b of S. 4638 would have exempted women from serving in "combat roles that were
closed to women prior to December 3, 2015, to train or become qualified in a combat arms military
occupational specialty, or to join a combat arms unit." Section 598B of S. 4638 would have also removed
the statutory provisions that currently disqualify non-registrants from federal employment under 5 U.S.C.
§3328 and workforce programs under 29 U.S.C. §3249. The Joint Explanatory Statement to accompany
the FY2025 NDAA does not provide an additional discussion regarding the decision not to adopt these
provisions.

Considerations for Congress

The 119th Congress could continue to monitor compliance with and the efficiency of the SSS data
collection, or consider reforms to the agency structure or registration requirements.

Registration Trends

Currently there are several pathways through which an individual may register. Almost all Selective
Service registrations are completed electronically; registration can also be done at U.S. Post Offices and
by submission of paper registrations. According to the SSS's annual report to Congress, registrations in
calendar year 2023 declined,

          The total number of registrations nationwide for men, ages 18 to 25, declined from 15.6 million in
          2022 to 15.2 million in 2023. This was largely driven by the loss of the requirement for men to
          register with SSS to receive Federal student aid and the removal of the option to register on the Free
          Application for FAFSA form.

Congress may continue monitoring registration trends and SSS costs to determine if future reforms to the
registration system are needed.

Registration for Women

Women in the United States have never been required to register for the draft. Though the SASC-passed
version of the FY2025 NDAA was the first to propose an exemption for women to be drafted into certain
combat roles, prior congresses have seen legislation that would require women to register. These
provisions were not enacted. Expanding selective service registration for women has also been considered
Congressional Research Service                                 4

by the courts. In June 2021, the Supreme Court declined to consider such a case, with one Justice noting
that Congress was considering legislation that would require women to register and noting the court's
"longstanding deference to Congress on matters of national defense and military affairs."
Congress may consider these among other issues related to selective service and draft registration.
For further background, see CRS Report R44452, The Selective Service System and Draft Registration:
Issues for Congress; CRS Insight IN11780, FY2022 NDAA: Selective Service and Draft Registration, and
CRS Insight IN11973, FY2023 NDAA: Selective Service and Draft Registration.

Author Information

Kristy N. Kamarck
Specialist in Military Personnel

Disclaimer

This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff
to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of
Congress. Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of
information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS's institutional role.
CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United
States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However,
as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the
permission of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.

                                IN12450 · VERSION 4 · UPDATED
