2021
Media
Kit

  U.S. SELECTIVE
  SERVICE SYSTEM
SSS 02 WHAT WE DO

  ALWAYS READY,
ALWAYS PREPARED

                        WHAT WE DO

We register men and maintain a system that, when authorized by the President
and Congress, rapidly provides personnel in a fair and equitable manner while

        managing an alternative service program for conscientious objectors.

publicaffairs@sss.gov  @sss_gov  @sss_gov
1515 Wilson Blvd
Arlington, VA          @SSSregistration
sss.gov
                       /usselectiveservicesystem
                            Selective Service
                              WHO WE ARE 03 SSS

TABLE OF

CONTENTS

02  WHAT WE DO

03  WHO WE ARE

04  SENIOR STAFF

05  ASSOCIATE DIRECTORS

06  OFFICIAL STATEMENTS

08  BENEFITS OF REGISTRATION

09  P E N A LT I E S

10  SEQUENCE OF EVENTS

12  QUOTES

14  HISTORICAL TIMELINE

WHO WE ARE

The Selective Service System is a trusted, actively engaged National
Defense partner and the sole source of conscripted talent for national
security in the event of a national emergency. We are an independent
agency within the Executive Branch of the U.S. Federal Government.
SSS 04 SENIOR STAFF

         SELECTIVE SERVICE

                 STAFF

                          ACTING DIRECTOR

                                  CRAIG BROWN

                                          Mr. Craig T. Brown, SES, was named Acting Director for the
                                          Selective Service System. He joined the agency as the
                                          Associate Director for Operations in 2018, and was responsible
                                          for plans, policy, and operations supporting registration, data
                                          management, and training functions for the Agency.

                          ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF

                                  SCOTT JONES

                                          Mr. Scott W. Jones is the Acting Chief of Staff and the Agency's
                                          Chief Information Officer. Mr. Jones joined the agency in
                                          October, 2016 and has over thirty years experience in the
                                          Information Technology field including Federal Information
                                          Security operations and policy, governance, budgeting,
                                          contracting, and conventional and agile project management.
                                                                             ASSOCIATE DIRECTORS 05 SSS

The Selective Service System's structure consists of the National Headquarters, Data
Management Center, and three Regional Headquarters, with 124 full-time employees
authorized.

Additionally, there is a field structure of military reservists and more than 11,000 civilian
volunteer board members. Each state, including the four U.S. territories, District of
Columbia, and New York City, has a state director. These roles account for the agency's
standby components, serving part-time and ready to be called into service in the event of
a draft.

ASSOCIATE DIRECTORS

GENERAL COUNSEL

RUDY SANCHEZ

OPERATIONS

TOM DEVINE

CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

SCOTT JONES

SUPPORT SERVICES

RODERICK LAWRENCE

PUBLIC & INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

MICHEAL MIGLIARA

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

JENNIFER HUGHES

REGIONAL DIRECTORS & DMC

REGION 1       REGION 2      REGION 3

THOMAS KENNEY  CARLOS PEREZ  STEVEN KETT

DATA MANAGEMENT CENTER PROGRAM MANAGER

NICOLE HARRIS
SSS 06 OFFICIAL STATEMENTS

                             OFFICIAL

                          STATEMENTS

        WHO WE ARE &      The Selective Service System is an independent agency within the Executive
           WHAT WE DO     Branch of the U.S. Federal Government. We register men and maintain a sys-
                          tem that, when authorized by the President and Congress, rapidly provides
         WHY WE EXIST     personnel in a fair and equitable manner while managing an alternative ser-
                          vice program for conscientious objectors. The Selective Service System is
CONSTITUTIONALITY         not part of the Department of Defense. We are responsible for the availabil-
         OF THE DRAFT     ity of additional personnel while the Department of Defense is responsible
                          for acceptability in the event of a draft.
              WHO MUST
                REGISTER  In the event of a national crisis where our all-volunteer armed forces needed
                          assistance, when authorized by the President and Congress, we would
   HOW TO REGISTER        quickly provide personnel. Our ability to rapidly increase our armed forces in
                          desperate times has proven beneficial to protecting our freedom here in the
     CONSEQUENCES         United States.
         OF FAILING TO
                REGISTER  Article I, Section 8, Clause 12 of the United States Constitution: "The Con-
                          gress shall have power to ...raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation
                          of Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years...." The consti-
                          tutionality of the Military Selective Service Act (MSSA) has been consistently
                          upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court.

                          Virtually all men in the United States, including documented and undocu-
                          mented immigrants, between the ages of 18 and 25. U.S. citizens living
                          abroad are also subject to the registration requirement. Once a man turns
                          26, it is too late to register.

                          Men 18-25 can register online with a valid SSN, by using our printable regis-
                          tration form, or by completing a form (SSS Form 1) at any U.S. post office, and
                          in 41 states when obtaining a driver's license.

                          Failure to register with Selective Service is a crime punishable by up to 5
                          years in prison and/or a $250,000 fine, however no prosecutions have oc-
                          curred since the 1986. Enforcement today relies heavily on associated Fed-
                          eral and State incentives to maintain registration rates.
                   OFFICIAL STATEMENTS 07 SSS

   REGISTRATION    Selective Service registration is necessary in order to obtain all Federal em-
      INCENTIVES   ployment (millions of local government jobs), some state-based aid, scholar-
                   ships, and financial aid programs, Federally-funded job training programs,
          WOMEN'S  and Naturalization (5 year delay in citizenship proceedings without
REGISTRATION &     registration).

        THE DRAFT  Unless changed by Congress, the Federal law requires that men between
  TRANSGENDER      the ages 18 through 25 register with the Selective Service System at sss.gov.
  & NON-BINARY     After men turn 26, they become permanently ineligible to register with the
  DISABLED MEN     SSS and jeopardize access to all federal jobs; many state and municipal jobs;
                   many student loans and grants; and job training and certification programs.
CONSCIENTIOUS
      OBJECTORS    By law, all those born male who are U.S. citizens or live in the U.S. between
                   the ages 18 through 25 years must register, including transgender women
     IMMIGRANTS    and non-binary people who were born male.

                   By law, virtually all men 18-25 who are U.S. citizens or living in the U.S. must
                   register, including men with obvious physical and mental disabilities who
                   believe they would not be required to serve in the military. In the event of
                   a draft, those with disabilities would still be referred to the Department of
                   Defense for determination of acceptability for military service. For those who
                   are hospitalized, in hospice, or institutionalized, the Selective Service System
                   would allow primary guardians and caregivers the ability to submit a claim,
                   with medical documentation, on behalf of the individual.

                   By law, virtually all men 18-25 who are U.S. citizens or living in the U.S. must
                   register, including men who believe themselves to be conscientiously op-
                   posed to participating in war, and other men who believe they would not
                   be required to serve in the military. There is no provision to register as a
                   conscientious objector (or any other classification category). A classifica-
                   tion program would resume only in the event of a draft. At that time, draft
                   eligible men facing induction into the military would have the opportunity to
                   file claims for classification as conscientious objectors, as well as other ap-
                   plicable deferments, postponements, or exemptions.

                   Men 18-25 must register within 30 days of arriving in the U.S. This includes
                   documented and undocumented immigrants, legal permanent residents,
                   asylum seekers, refugees, and men in the U.S. on an expired visa. The few
                   individuals who are exempt from this requirement are those on current non-
                   immigrant visas such as an F or M category visa (student visas).

FOR ALL OTHER      Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs
       INQUIRIES,  Phone: (703) 605-4100
                   Email: publicaffairs@sss.gov
 CONTACT NHQ
SSS 08 BENEFITS OF REGISTRATION

             BENEFITS OF
           REGISTRATION

REGISTRATION IS     Selective Service's mission is to register virtually all men residing
          THE GOAL  in the United States. If a draft is ever needed, the process must
                    be fair, and that fairness depends on having all eligible men reg-
                    ister. In the event of a draft, for every man who fails to register,
                    another man would be required to take his place in service to his
                    country.

CITIZENSHIP         The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) makes
                    registration with Selective Service a condition for U.S. citizenship
                    if the man first arrived in the U.S. before his 26th birthday.

FEDERAL JOB         The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (formerly the
     TRAINING       Workforce Investment Act (WIA)) offers programs that can train
                    men seeking vocational employment or enhancing their career.
                    This program is only open to those men who register with Selec-
                    tive Service. Only men born after December 31, 1959, are re-
                    quired to show proof of registration.

FEDERAL JOBS        A man must be registered to be eligible for jobs in the Executive
                    Branch of the Federal Government and the U.S. Postal Service.
                    Proof of registration is required only for men born after December
                    31, 1959.
                                                                                               PENALTIES 09 SSS

              PENALTIES

Failure to register is a felony punishable by a fine of up to $250,000 and/or 5
years imprisonment. Also, a person who knowingly counsels, aids, or abets an-
other to fail to comply with the registration requirement is subject to the same
penalties. In addition to potential criminal repercussions, failure to register may
make a man permanently ineligible for certain benefits. Some States have cre-
ated additional consequences for men who fail to register.
Unless a man provides proof that he is exempt from the registration requirement,
his failure to register will result in referral to the Department of Justice for pos-
sible investigation and prosecution.*

*The last prosecution by the Department of Justice for failing to register with the Selective Ser-
vice was in 1983.
SSS 10 SEQUENCE OF EVENTS

         SEQUENCE OF

            EVENTS

1  DRAFT AUTHORIZATION
2
3  CONGRESS AND THE PRESIDENT

   A national emergency, exceeding the Department of
   Defense's capability to recruit and retain its total force
   strength, requires Congress to amend the Military Selective
   Service Act to authorize the President to induct personnel
   into the Armed Forces.

   ACTIVATION

   OF SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM

   Selective Service activates and orders all personnel to re-
   port for duty. Reserve Force Officers, along with selected
   military retirees, begin to open Area Offices to accept reg-
   istrant claims. Local, District Appeal, and National Board
   members are be notified to report for refresher training.

   THE LOTTERY

   RANDOM SELECTION OF MEN

   A publicly attended, nationally televised and live-streamed
   lottery is conducted. The lottery, a random drawing of birth-
   days and numbers, establishes the order in which individu-
   als receive orders to report for induction. The first to receive
   induction orders are those whose 20th birthday falls during
   the year of the lottery. If required, additional lotteries are
   conducted for those 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 19, and finally 18.5
   years-old.
                                                                              SEQUENCE OF EVENTS 11 SSS

When the all-volunteer force was established, it was not intended to stand alone in a time
of national emergency. If, by law, it is determined that a return to the draft is required, the
Selective Service System would be responsible for supplying manpower to fill vacancies
that could not be filled through voluntary enlistments.

Selective Service System expansion would also be a significant part of the activation
process. Reserve Forces Officers would be called to active duty to establish State
Headquarters and Area Offices at predetermined locations, while approximately 2,000
Local and Appeal Boards would be activated throughout the nation, staffed by 11,000
volunteers.

4  ORDERS TO REPORT TO MEPS

5  FIT-FOR-SERVICE EVALUATION
6
   Induction notices are sent and registrants may now make
   claims if desired for a postponement, deferment or exemp-
   tion. Inductees report to a local Military Entrance Process-
   ing Station (MEPS) for induction. At MEPS, registrants are
   given a physical, mental, and moral evaluation to determine
   whether they are fit for military service. Once notified of the
   results of the evaluation, a registrant will either be inducted
   into military service or sent home.

   ACTIVATION

   OF LOCAL & DISTRICT APPEALS BOARDS

   Local and Appeal Boards begin to process registrant claims
   for classification as conscientious objectors, dependency
   hardships, ministerial and ministerial student deferments,
   and appeals.

   INDUCTION

   FIRST DRAFTEES

   According to current Department of Defense (DoD) require-
   ments, Selective Service must deliver the first inductees to
   the military within 193 days from the onset of a crisis and
   the law being updated to authorize a draft.
SSS 12 QUOTES

               SELECTIVE SERVICE

                     QUOTES

  Donald Trump              "The Nation must be ever mindful of the unpredictable global
President of the            security environment that requires an effective and efficient
                            means to provide manpower to the national security community,
   United States            including military and non-military support in a national emer-
               2017         gency. Historically, the Nation has maintained Selective Service
                            registration to provide a hedge against the catastrophe not yet
                            anticipated. Registration is a means to sustain preparedness,
                            while also reminding youth that public service is a valued part of
                            United States citizenship."

  Office of the Under       "Every administration since 1980 has made the conscious deci-
Secretary of Defense        sion to maintain national registration for Selective Service as the
                            tool through which Congress and the President would provide
    for Personnel and       additonal manpower to the Armed Forces - an insurance policy
              Readiness     - should future threats spark requirements for forces in excess of
                      2017  those available to the all-volunteer force. The Military Selective
                            Service System guarantees the certain and timely fulfillment of
                            military manpower requirements in a national emergency."

           Chuck Hagel      "...National interests are served by the Selective Service System.
Secretary of Defense        Registration provides a hedge against a catastrophe we do not
                            yet anticipate. The Selective Service System is a means to sus-
                      2013  tain this legacy by reminding our youth that public service is a
                            valid part of American Citizenship."

   Office of Assistant      "...There continues to be national necessities for continuation of
Secretary of Defense        the SSS. ...Registration provides the structure for mobilization...
                            SSS registration allows the Services to allocate enough recruit-
                      2013  ing resources to man the current force... The simple act of regis-
                            tration by every male within 6 months of his 18th birthday may be
                            the only time that young males have to make a positive action
                            relating to the concept of national service. ...The mere existence
                            of SSS and the registration requirement serves as a symbol to
                            the world of our Nation's resolve and preparedness."
                             QUOTES 13 SSS

          Leon Panetta       "On the Selective Service ...My view is that we ought to maintain
Secretary of Defense         the registration aspect because, particularly as we go through
                             these budget cuts, particularly as we go into the future, if we face
                       2011  one of those surprises, if we face one of those crises that sud-
                             denly occurs, we've got to have some mechanism in place in or-
                             der to be able to respond. ...I think we always have to be ready
                             for that possible contingency in the future if we suddenly had to
                             face an unexpected event."

Senator John Warner          "I was in the Department of Defense at the time the Secretary
Chairman U.S. Senate         and others decided to end the draft, but I have strongly sup-
Committee on Armed           ported the legislation through my several years here in the Sen-
                             ate to have standby authority and other things in place should
                  Services   the occasion ever arise for that. I think it is important for the
                      2004   young men of this country to be conscious of an obligation that
                             goes along with service."

               Bill Clinton  [The SSS and] "registration provides a hedge against unfore-
Former U.S. President        seen threats and a relatively low-cost `insurance policy' against
                             our underestimating the maximum level of threat we expect our
                       1994  Armed Forces to face."
SSS 14 HISTORICAL TIMELINE

           HISTORICAL

           TIMELINE

       VIETNAM WAR

       In the 1950s and early 1960s, the U.S.      COLD WAR

       presence in Vietnam expanded with in-

       creasing intensity. The Selective Service   The Selective Service Training and Ser-

       encountered protest about unfair defer-     vice Act expired in 1947. Only a year

Today  ments fueled by an anti-war sentiment.      later, at President Truman's request, new

       The Selective Service provided              peacetime draft legislation was passed

       20% of men in uniform during    1950        to supplement voluntary   1947
                                                   recruiting.
       the Vietnam War.

       Total # inducted: 1,857,304 -1975           Total # inducted: 30,129  -1949

       1976 D E E P S TA N D B Y                   1950 KO R E A N WA R

       -1980 Registration was suspended            -1953 President Truman authorizes

                     in early 1975 and the Selec-                the Armed Forces to use the
        tive Service System entered into a          draft if necessary during the Korean cri-
        "deep standby" position. In late 1979,      sis. The Selective Service provided 27%
        a series of revival efforts began in an     of the men in uniform during the Korean
        effort to upgrade the Selective Service     War. As a result of the Physicians and
        System's capability for rapid mobiliza-     Dentists Draft Act, 7,054 physicians and
        tion in an emergency. In the summer         3,799 dentists are delivered by Selective
        of 1980 the registration requirement        Service to the Armed Forces. Less than
        was resumed.                                50 of them were actually inducted.
                                                    Total # inducted: 1,529,539
                                                                                 HISTORICAL TIMELINE 15 SSS

Today, men are required to register with the Selective Service System within 30 days of
their 18th birthday through our website or at U.S. post offices or diplomatic offices. The
United States of America is protected by our all-volunteer military. There is no conscription
at this time.

The last man inducted entered the Army on June 30, 1973.

Learn more about the historical changes in the Operations, methods of Registration,
Classification, Sources of Manpower, and Selection and Induction throughout our
country's history at sss.gov/history-and-records/timeline/.

WORLD WAR I

The first national conscription system

comes into being in 1917. Congress

passes a draft law based on "the liability    E A R LY A M E R I C A

to military service of all male citizens."

The law authorized a draft of men be-         Each state maintained its own militia, with

tween the ages of 21 and 31. A new            limited Federal direction guidance or regu-

classification system gave the newly          lation. All able bodied men of military age

created local boards a set of guidelines      (18-45) would enroll with very lax require-

to determine which men should                 ments. Citizen's willingness to
                               1914           serve was given priority over Prior to
be drafted.

Total # inducted: 2,810,296 -1918             liability.                       1861

1939 W O R L D WA R II                        1861 C I V I L WA R

-1945 On September 16, 1940, the              -1865       The War department was put in
                                                          charge of executing the draft.
              Selective Service Training and
  Service Act (the nation's first peacetime   All military groups were instructed to
  draft law) was signed. By the end of the
  war, over 45 million men between the        visit homes in search of eligible males.
  ages of 18 and 64 had been registered.
  15 million of the men who served in the     The Enrollment Act of 1863 involuntar-
  U.S. Armed Forces during WWII, approx-
  imately 66% were inducted.                  ily called men to service. Quotas were
  Total # inducted: 10,110,104
                                              established by districts, but rarely were

                                              filled. At this time there was no organ-

                                              ized selection process put into place.
Unique Opportunity To
Something Awesome

  THANK YOU

          FROM THE

    U.S. SELECTIVE
   SERVICE SYSTEM

        NATIONAL  (703) 605-4100
HEADQUARTERS      sss.gov
                  information@sss.gov
                  1515 Wilson Blvd
                  Arlington, VA
